 The UEFA Champions League , known simply as the Champions League , is an annual continental club football competition organised by the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) and contested by top-division European clubs . It is one of the most prestigious tournaments in the world and the most prestigious club competition in European football, played by the national league champion (and, for some nations, one or more runners-up) of each UEFA national association. The final of the 2012–13 tournament was the most watched UEFA Champions League final to date, as well as the most watched annual sporting event worldwide in 2013, drawing 360 million television viewers.  , Introduced in 1992, the competition replaced the European Champion Clubs' Cup , or simply European Cup , which had run since 1955, adding a group stage to the competition and allowing multiple entrants from certain countries.  The pre-1992 competition was initially a straight knockout tournament open only to the champion club of each country. During the 1990s, the format was expanded, incorporating a round-robin group stage to include clubs that finished runner-up of some nation's top level league.  While most of Europe's national leagues can still only enter their national league champion, Europe's strongest national leagues now provide up to four teams for the competition,  and will provide up to five teams from the 2015–16 season onwards.  Clubs that finish next-in-line in each nation's top level league, having not qualified for the UEFA Champions League competition, may be eligible for the next level UEFA Europa League competition. , In its present format, the UEFA Champions League begins in mid-July with three knockout qualifying rounds and a play-off round. The 10 surviving teams enter the group stage, joining 22 other teams qualified in advance. The 32 teams are drawn into eight groups of four teams and play each other in a double round-robin system . The eight group winners and eight runners-up proceed to the knockout phase that culminates with the final match in May.  The winner of the UEFA Champions League qualifies for the UEFA Super Cup and the FIFA Club World Cup .   , Real Madrid is the most successful club in the competition's history, having won the tournament ten times, including its first five seasons. Spanish clubs have accumulated the highest number of victories (15 wins), followed by England and Italy (12 wins apiece). The competition has been won by 22 different clubs, 12 of which have won it more than once.  Since the tournament changed name and structure in 1992, no club has managed consecutive wins; Milan were the last holders to successfully defend their title, in the 1989–90 season.  The reigning champions are Barcelona , who secured their fifth title in the competition after defeating Juventus 3–1 in the 2015 Final .  , , , The first pan-European tournament was the Challenge Cup, a competition between clubs in the Austro-Hungarian Empire .  The Mitropa Cup , a competition modelled after the Challenge Cup, was created in 1927 by Zeid Edilbi and played between Central European clubs.  In 1930, the Coupe des Nations ( French : Nations Cup ), the first attempt to create a cup for national champion clubs of Europe, was played and organised by Swiss club Servette .  Held in Geneva , it brought together ten champions from across the continent. The tournament was won by Újpest of Hungary.  Latin European nations came together to form the Latin Cup in 1949.  After receiving reports from his journalists over the highly successful Campeonato Sudamericano de Campeones of 1948, Gabriel Hanot , editor of L'Équipe , began proposing the creation of a continent-wide tournament.  After Stan Cullis declared Wolverhampton Wanderers "Champions of the World" following a successful run of friendlies in the 1950s, in particular a 3–2 friendly victory against Budapest Honvéd , Hanot finally managed to convince UEFA to put into practice such a tournament.  It was conceived in Paris in 1955 as the European Champion Clubs' Cup .  , The first edition of the European Cup took place during the 1955–56 season.   Sixteen teams participated: Milan (Italy), AGF Aarhus (Denmark), Anderlecht (Belgium), Djurgården (Sweden), Gwardia Warszawa (Poland), Hibernian (Scotland), Partizan ( Yugoslavia ), PSV Eindhoven (Netherlands), Rapid Wien (Austria), Real Madrid (Spain), Rot-Weiss Essen ( West Germany ), Saarbrücken ( Saar ), Servette (Switzerland), Sporting CP (Portugal), Stade de Reims (France), and Vörös Lobogó (Hungary).   The first European Cup match took place on 4 September 1955, and ended in a 3–3 draw between Sporting CP and Partizan.   The first goal in European Cup history was scored by João Baptista Martins of Sporting CP.   The inaugural final took place at the Parc des Princes between Stade de Reims and Real Madrid.    The Spanish squad came back from behind to win 4–3 thanks to goals from Alfredo Di Stéfano and Marquitos , as well as two goals from Héctor Rial .    , Real Madrid successfully defended the trophy next season in their home stadium, the Santiago Bernabéu , against Fiorentina .   After a scoreless first half, Real Madrid scored twice in six minutes to defeat the Italians.    In 1958 , Milan failed to capitalize after going ahead on the scoreline twice, only for Real Madrid to equalize.   The final held in Heysel Stadium went to extra time when Francisco Gento scored the game-winning goal to allow Real Madrid to retain the title for the third consecutive season.    In a rematch of the first final, Real Madrid faced Stade Reims at the Neckarstadion for the 1958–59 season final , easily winning 2–0.    West German side Eintracht Frankfurt became the first non-Latin team to reach the European Cup final.   The 1959–60 season finale still holds the record for the most goals scored, but the record is overshadowed by the 7–3 thrashing Eintracht Frankfurt received in Hampden Park , courtesy of four goals by Ferenc Puskás and a hat-trick by Alfredo Di Stéfano.    This was Real Madrid's fifth consecutive title, a record that still stands today.  , Los Merengues reign ended in the 1960–61 season when bitter rivals Barcelona dethroned them in the quarter-finals.   Barcelona themselves, however, would be defeated in the final by Portuguese outfit Benfica 3–2 at Wankdorf Stadium .    Reinforced by Eusébio , Benfica defeated Real Madrid 5–3 at the Olympic Stadium in Amsterdam and kept the title for a second, consecutive season .    Benfica wanted to repeat Real Madrid's successful run of the 1950s after reaching the showpiece event of the 1962–63 European Cup , but a brace from Brazilian-Italian José Altafini at the Wembley Stadium gave the spoils to Milan, making the trophy leave the Iberian Peninsula for the first time ever.    Internazionale beat an ageing-Real Madrid 3–1 in the Ernst-Happel-Stadion to win the 1963–64 season and replicate their local-rival's success.    The title stayed in the city of Milan for the third year in a row after Inter beat Benfica 1–0 at their home ground, the San Siro .    , The UEFA Champions League anthem, officially titled simply as "Champions League", was written by Tony Britten , and is an adaptation of George Frideric Handel's Zadok the Priest (one of his Coronation Anthems ).   UEFA commissioned Britten in 1992 to arrange an anthem, and the piece was performed by London's Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and sung by the Academy of St. Martin in the Fields .  The chorus contains the three official languages used by UEFA: English, German, and French. The anthem's chorus is played before each UEFA Champions League game, as well as at the beginning and end of television broadcasts of the matches. The complete anthem is about three minutes long, and has two short verses and the chorus. For the 2009 UEFA Champions League Final in Rome, tenor Andrea Bocelli sang backing lyrics to the Champions League anthem, whilst similarly Juan Diego Flórez provided the tenor for the 2010 UEFA Champions League Final . Girl band All Angels performed at the 2011 UEFA Champions League Final . Jonas Kaufmann provided the tenor for 2012 UEFA Champions League Final , whilst David Garrett performed with his violin. The anthem has never been released commercially in its original version. , As of 2009 , the UEFA Champions League begins with a double round-robin group stage of 32 teams, which is preceded by two qualification 'streams' for teams that do not receive direct entry to the tournament proper. The two streams are divided between teams qualified by virtue of being league champions, and those qualified by virtue of finishing 2nd–4th in their national championship. , The number of teams that each association enters into the UEFA Champions League is based upon the UEFA coefficients of the member associations. These coefficients are generated by the results of clubs representing each association during the previous five Champions League and UEFA Europa League/UEFA Cup seasons. The higher an association's coefficient, the more teams represent the association in the Champions League, and the fewer qualification rounds the association's teams must compete in. , Five of the remaining ten qualifying places are granted to the winners of a four round qualifying tournament between the remaining 40 or 39 national champions, within which those champions from associations with higher coefficients receive byes to later rounds. The other five are granted to the winners of a two round qualifying tournament between the 15 clubs from the associations ranked 1 through 15, which have qualified based upon finishing second, third, or fourth in their respective national league. , In addition to sporting criteria, any club must be licensed by its national association to participate in the Champions league. To obtain a license, the club must meet certain stadium, infrastructure, and finance requirements. , In 2005–06 , Liverpool and Artmedia Bratislava became the first teams to reach the Champions League group stage after playing in all three qualifying rounds. In 2008–09 , both BATE Borisov and Anorthosis Famagusta achieved the same feat. Real Madrid holds the record for the most consecutive appearances in the group stage, having qualified 19 times in a row (1997-2016). They are followed by Manchester United on 18 (1996-2014)  and Arsenal on 18 (1998-2016).  , Between 2003 and 2008, no differentiation was made between champions and non-champions in qualification. The 16 top ranked teams spread across the biggest domestic leagues qualified directly for the tournament group stage. Prior to this, three preliminary knockout qualifying rounds whittled down the remaining teams, with different teams starting in different rounds. , An exception to the usual European qualification system happened in 2005, after Liverpool won the Champions League the year before, but did not finish in a Champions League qualification place in the Premier League that season. UEFA gave special dispensation for Liverpool to enter the Champions League, giving England five qualifiers.  UEFA subsequently ruled that the defending champions qualify for the competition the following year regardless of their domestic league placing. However, for those leagues with four entrants in the Champions League, this meant that, if the Champions League winner fell outside of its domestic league's top four, it would qualify at the expense of the fourth-placed team in the league. Until 2015-16, no association could have more than four entrants in the Champions League.  In May 2012, Tottenham Hotspur finished fourth in the Premier League , two places ahead of Chelsea, but failed to qualify for the 2012–13 Champions League , after Chelsea won the 2012 Champions League Final .  Tottenham were demoted to the Europa League for the 2012–13 season.  , The top three leagues in Europe are currently allowed to enter four teams into the Champions League. Michel Platini , the UEFA president, had proposed taking one place from the top three leagues and allocating it to that nation's cup winners. This proposal was rejected in a vote at a UEFA Strategy Council meeting.  In the same meeting, however, it was agreed that the third-placed team in the top three leagues would receive automatic qualification for the group stage, rather than entry into the third qualifying round, while the fourth-placed team would enter the play-off round for non-champions, guaranteeing an opponent from one of the top 15 leagues in Europe. This was part of Platini's plan to increase the number of teams qualifying directly into the group stage, while simultaneously increasing the number of teams from lower-ranked nations in the group stage.  , The tournament proper begins with a group stage of 32 teams, divided into eight groups. Seeding is used whilst making the draw for this stage, whilst teams from the same country may not be drawn into groups together. Each team meets the others in its group home and away in a round-robin format. The winning team and the runners-up from each group then progress to the next round. The third-placed team enters the UEFA Europa League . , For this stage, the winning team from one group plays against the runners-up from another group, and teams from the same association may not be drawn against each other. From the quarter-finals onwards, the draw is entirely random, without association protection. The tournament uses the away goals rule : if the aggregate score of the two games is tied, then the team who scored more goals at their opponent's stadium advances.  , The group stage is played from September to December, whilst the knock-out stage starts in February. The knock-out ties are played in a two-legged format, with the exception of the final. This is typically held in the final two weeks of May. , Starting with the 2015–16 edition, the winners of the UEFA Europa League will be entered into the Champions League, initially at the level of the playoff round, ensuring group stage participation in either competition. The maximum number of teams that an association can field in the tournament has also been increased from four to five.  , The UEFA Refereeing Unit is broken down into five experience-based categories. A referee is initially placed into Category 4 with the exception of referees from France, Germany, England, Italy, or Spain. Referees from these five countries are typically comfortable with top professional matches and are therefore directly placed into Category 3. Each referee's performance is observed and evaluated after every match; his category may be revised twice per season, but a referee cannot be promoted directly from Category 3 to the Elite Category.  , In co-operation with the UEFA Refereeing Unit, the UEFA Referee Committee is responsible for appointing referees to matches. Referees are appointed based on previous matches, marks, performances, and fitness levels. To discourage bias, the Champions League takes nationality into account. No referee may be of the same origins as any club in his or her respecting groups. Referee appointments, suggested by the UEFA Refereeing Unit, are sent to the UEFA Referee Committee to be discussed and/or revised. After a consensus is made, the name of the appointed referee remains confidential up to two days before the match for the purpose of minimising public influence.  , Since 1990, a UEFA international referee cannot exceed the age of 45 years. After turning 45, a referee must step down at the end of his season. The age limit was established to ensure an elite level of fitness. Today, UEFA Champions League referees are required to pass a fitness test to even be considered at the international level.  , Each year, the winning team is presented with the European Champion Clubs' Cup, the current version of which has been awarded since 1967. Any team that wins the Champions League three years in a row or five times overall wins the right to retain a full-sized replica of the trophy (UEFA retains the original at all times). Six clubs have earned this honour: Real Madrid, Ajax, Bayern Munich, Milan, Liverpool, and Barcelona. , The current trophy is 74 cm (29 in) tall and made of silver, weighing 11 kg (24 lb). It was designed by Jörg Stadelmann, a jeweller from Bern , Switzerland , after the original was given to Real Madrid in 1966 in recognition of their six titles to date, and cost 10,000 Swiss francs . , As of the 2012–13 season, 40 gold medals are presented to the Champions League winners, and 40 silver medals to the runners-up.  , As of 2015–16, UEFA awards €2 million to the play-offs winners and €3 million to the eliminated clubs in the play-off round. For reaching the group stage, UEFA awards a base fee of €12 million. A win in the groups is awarded with €1.5 million and a draw is worth €500,000. In addition, UEFA pays teams reaching the first knockout round €5.5 million, each quarter-finalist €6 million, €7 million for each semi-finalist, €10.5 million for the runners-up and €15 million for the winners.  , A large part of the distributed revenue from the UEFA Champions League is linked to the "market pool", the distribution of which is determined by the value of the television market in each country. For the 2012–13 season, Juventus , who were eliminated in the quarter-finals, earned nearly €65.3 million in total, of which €20.5 million was prize money, compared with the €55.0 million earned by Bayern Munich, who won the tournament and were awarded €35.9 million in prize money.  , Like the FIFA World Cup , the UEFA Champions League is sponsored by a group of multinational corporations, in contrast to the single main sponsor typically found in national top-flight leagues. When the Champions League was created in 1992, it was decided that a maximum of eight companies should be allowed to sponsor the event, with each corporation being allocated four advertising boards around the perimeter of the pitch, as well as logo placement at pre- and post-match interviews and a certain number of tickets to each match. This, combined with a deal to ensure tournament sponsors were given priority on television advertisements during matches, ensured that each of the tournament's main sponsors was given maximum exposure.  , From the 2012–13 knockout phase , UEFA have utilised the LED advertising hoardings installed in knock-out participant stadiums, including the final stage. It is planned to use such hoardings to play-off matches onwards.  , The tournament's current main sponsors are: , Adidas is a secondary sponsor and supplies the official match ball, the Adidas Finale , and referee uniform, as they do for all UEFA competitions.  Konami 's Pro Evolution Soccer is also a secondary sponsor as the official Champions League video game. , Individual clubs may wear jerseys with advertising. However, only one sponsorship is permitted per jersey in addition to that of the kit manufacturer (exceptions are made for non-profit organisations, which can feature on the front of the shirt, incorporated with the main sponsor or in place of it; or on the back, either below the squad number or on the collar area.  , If clubs play a match in a country where the relevant sponsorship category is restricted (such as France's alcohol advertising restriction), then they must remove that logo from their jerseys. For example, when Rangers played French sides Auxerre and Strasbourg in the 1996–97 Champions League and the UEFA Cup , respectively, Rangers players wore the logo of Center Parcs instead of McEwan's Lager .  , The competition attracts an extensive television audience, not just in Europe, but throughout the world. The final of the tournament has been, in recent years, the most-watched annual sporting event in the world.  The 2013 final was the most watched final to date, drawing 360 million television viewers.  , excluding qualifying games , As of 6 June, 2015.    , excluding qualifying games , As of 6 June 2015.  , Players in Bold are still active in Europe.  Real Madrid Club de Fútbol ( Spanish pronunciation:  [reˈal maˈðɾið ˈkluβ ðe ˈfuðβol] ; Royal Madrid Football Club ), commonly known as Real Madrid , or simply as Real , is a professional football club based in Madrid , Spain. , Founded in 1902 as Madrid Football Club , the team has traditionally worn a white home kit since. The word Real is Spanish for Royal and was bestowed to the club by King Alfonso XIII in 1920 together with the royal crown in the emblem. The team has played its home matches in the 81,044-capacity Santiago Bernabéu Stadium in downtown Madrid since 1947. Unlike most European football clubs, Real Madrid's members ( socios ) have owned and operated the club since its inception. , The club is the most valuable sports team in the world, worth €2.5 billion ($3.4 billion) and also the world's richest football club , with an annual revenue of €549.5 million.    The club is one of the most widely supported teams in the world.  Real Madrid is one of three founding members of the Primera División which have never been relegated from the top division, along with Athletic Bilbao and Barcelona . The club holds many long-standing rivalries, most notably El Clásico with Barcelona and the El Derbi madrileño with Atlético Madrid . , Real Madrid established itself as a major force in both Spanish and European football during the 1950s. The club won five consecutive European Cups , and reached the final seven times. This success was replicated in the league, where the club won five times in the space of seven years. This team, which consisted of players such as Di Stéfano , Ferenc Puskás , Gento , Raymond Kopa and Santamaría , is considered by some in the sport to be the greatest team of all time.     , In domestic football, the club has won a record 32 La Liga titles, 19 Copa del Rey , 9 Supercopa de España , 1 Copa Eva Duarte and 1 Copa de la Liga .  In international football, the club has won a record 10 European Cup/UEFA Champions League titles and a joint record 3 Intercontinental Cups , as well as 2 UEFA Cups , 2 UEFA Super Cups and a FIFA Club World Cup . , Real Madrid was recognised as the FIFA Club of the 20th Century on 23 December 2000, and named Best European Club of the 20th Century by the IFFHS on 11 May 2010. The club received the FIFA Centennial Order of Merit in 2004. The club is ranked first in the latest IFFHS Club World Ranking, setting a new ranking-points record.  The club also leads the current UEFA club rankings .  , , , Real Madrid's origins go back to when football was introduced to Madrid by the academics and students of the Institución Libre de Enseñanza , which included several Cambridge and Oxford University graduates. They founded Football Club Sky in 1897, playing on Sunday mornings at Moncloa. It split into two clubs in 1900: New Foot-Ball de Madrid and Madrid Football Club.  On 6 March 1902, after a new Board presided by Juan Padrós had been elected, Madrid Football Club was officially founded.  Three years after its foundation, in 1905, Madrid FC won its first title after defeating Athletic Bilbao in the Spanish Cup final. The club became one of the founding sides of the Royal Spanish Football Federation on 4 January 1909, when club president Adolfo Meléndez signed the foundation agreement of the Spanish FA. After moving between grounds the team moved to the Campo de O'Donnell in 1912.  In 1920, the club's name was changed to Real Madrid after King Alfonso XIII granted the title of Real (Royal) to the club.  , In 1929, the first Spanish football league was founded. Real Madrid led the first league season until the last match, a loss to Athletic Bilbao, meant they finished runners-up to Barcelona.  Real Madrid won its first League title in the 1931–32 season . Real won the League again the following year, becoming the first side to have won the championship twice.  , On 14 April 1931, the arrival of the Second Spanish Republic caused the club to lose the title Real and went back to being named Madrid Football Club. Football continued during the Second World War, and on 13 June 1943 Madrid beat Barcelona 11–1 in the second leg of a semi-final  of the Copa del Generalísimo , the Copa del Rey having been renamed in honour of General Franco . It has been suggested that Barcelona players were intimidated by police,  including by the director of state security who "allegedly told the team that some of them were only playing because of the regime's generosity in permitting them to remain in the country."  The Barcelona chairman, Enric Piñeyro, was assaulted by Madrid fans.  However, none of these allegations have been proven and FIFA and UEFA still consider the result as legitimate. According to Spanish journalist and writer, Juan Carlos Pasamontes, Barcelona player Josep Valle denied that the Spanish security forces came before the match.  Instead, at the end of the first half, Barcelona coach Juan José Nogués and all of his players were angry with the hard-style of play Real Madrid was using and with the aggressiveness of the home crowd.  When they refused to take the field, the Superior Chief of Police of Madrid appeared, identified himself, and ordered the team to take the field.  , Santiago Bernabéu Yeste became president of Real Madrid in 1945.  Under his presidency, the club, its stadium Santiago Bernabéu and its training facilities Ciudad Deportiva were rebuilt after the Spanish Civil War damages. Additionally, during the 1950s former Real Madrid Amateurs player Miguel Malbo founded Real Madrid's youth academy, or " cantera ", known today as La Fábrica . Beginning in 1953, he embarked upon a strategy of signing world-class players from abroad, the most prominent of them being Alfredo Di Stéfano .  , In 1955, acting upon the idea proposed by the French sports journalist and editor of L'Équipe Gabriel Hanot , Bernabéu, Bedrignan and Gusztáv Sebes created an exhibition tournament of invited teams from around Europe that would eventually become what today is known as the UEFA Champions League .  It was under Bernabéu's guidance that Real Madrid established itself as a major force in both Spanish and European football. The club won the European Cup five times in a row between 1956 and 1960, which included the 7–3 Hampden Park final against Eintracht Frankfurt in 1960 .  After these five consecutive successes, Real was permanently awarded the original cup and earning the right to wear the UEFA badge of honour .  , The club won the European Cup for a sixth time in 1966 defeating Partizan Belgrade 2–1 in the final with a team composed entirely of same nationality players, a first in the competition.  This team became known as the Yé-yé . The name "Ye-yé" came from the "Yeah, yeah, yeah" chorus in The Beatles ' song " She Loves You " after four members of the team posed for Diario Marca dressed in Beatles wigs. The Ye-yé generation was also European Cup runner-up in 1962 and 1964 .  , In the 1970s, Real Madrid won five league championships and three Spanish Cups.  The club played its first UEFA Cup Winners' Cup final in 1971 and lost to English side Chelsea 2–1.  On 2 July 1978, club president Santiago Bernabéu died while the World Cup was being played in Argentina . The International Federation of Association Football (FIFA) decreed three days of mourning to honour him during the tournament.  The following year, the club organized the first edition of the Trofeo Santiago Bernabéu in the memory of its former president. , By the early 1980s, Real Madrid had lost its grasp on the La Liga title until a new batch of home-grown stars brought domestic success back to the club.  Spanish sport journalist Julio César Iglesias gave to this generation the name La Quinta del Buitre ("Vulture's Cohort"), which was derived from the nickname given to one of its members, Emilio Butragueño . The other four members were Manuel Sanchís , Martín Vázquez , Míchel and Miguel Pardeza ; all five footballers were graduates of Real Madrid's youth academy .  With La Quinta del Buitre (reduced to four members when Pardeza left the club for Zaragoza in 1986) and notable players like goalkeeper Francisco Buyo , right-back Miguel Porlán Chendo and Mexican striker Hugo Sánchez , Real Madrid had one of the best teams in Spain and Europe during the second half of the 1980s, winning two UEFA Cups, five Spanish championships in a row, one Spanish cup and three Spanish Super Cups .  In the early 1990s, La Quinta del Buitre split up after Martín Vázquez, Emilio Butragueño and Míchel left the club. , In 1996, President Lorenzo Sanz appointed Fabio Capello as coach. Although his tenure lasted only one season, Real Madrid was proclaimed league champion and players like Roberto Carlos , Predrag Mijatović , Davor Šuker and Clarence Seedorf arrived at the club to strengthen a squad that already boasted the likes of Raúl , Fernando Hierro , Iván Zamorano , and Fernando Redondo . As a result, Real Madrid (with the addition of Fernando Morientes in 1997) finally ended its 32-year wait for its seventh European Cup: in 1998, under manager Jupp Heynckes , they defeated Juventus 1–0 in the final with a goal from Predrag Mijatović .  , In July 2000, Florentino Pérez was elected club president.  He vowed in his campaign to erase the club's €270 million debt and modernize the club's facilities. However, the primary electoral promise that propelled Pérez to victory was the signing of Luís Figo from arch-rivals Barcelona.  The following year, the club got its training ground rezoned and used the money to begin assembling the famous Galácticos side including players such as Zinédine Zidane , Ronaldo , Luís Figo , Roberto Carlos , Raúl , Fabio Cannavaro and David Beckham . It is debatable whether the gamble paid off, as despite winning the UEFA Champions League and an Intercontinental Cup in 2002, followed by the League in 2003, the club failed to win a major trophy for the next three seasons.  , The few days after the capturing of the 2003 league title were surrounded with controversy. The first controversial decision came when Pérez sacked winning coach Vicente del Bosque.  Over a dozen players left the club, including Madrid captain Fernando Hierro, while defensive midfielder Claude Makélélé refused to take part in training in protest at being one of the lowest-paid players at the club and subsequently moved to Chelsea .  "That's a lot [of players leaving] when the normal rule is: never change a winning team", stated Zidane.  Real Madrid, with newly appointed coach Carlos Queiroz , started their domestic league slowly after a hard win over Real Betis.  , The 2005–06 season began with the promise of several new signings: Julio Baptista (€24 million), Robinho (€30 million) and Sergio Ramos (€27 million).  However, Real Madrid suffered from some poor results, including a 0–3 loss at the hands of Barcelona in the Santiago Bernabéu in November 2005.  Madrid's coach Wanderley Luxemburgo was sacked the following month and his replacement was Juan Ramón López Caro .  A brief return to form came to an abrupt halt after losing the first leg of the Copa del Rey quarterfinal, 6–1 to Real Zaragoza.  Shortly after, Real Madrid were eliminated from the Champions League for a fourth successive year, this time at the hands of Arsenal. On 27 February 2006, Florentino Pérez resigned.  , Ramón Calderón was elected as club president on 2 July 2006 and subsequently appointed Fabio Capello as the new coach and Predrag Mijatović as the new sporting director. Real Madrid won the La Liga title in 2007 for the first time in four years but Capello was sacked.  On 9 June 2007, Real played against Zaragoza at La Romareda . Zaragoza led Real 2–1 near the end of the match while Barcelona were also winning against Espanyol 2–1. A late Ruud van Nistelrooy equalizer followed by a last-minute Raúl Tamudo goal sprang Real Madrid's title hopes back into their favour. , The title was won on 17 June, Real faced Mallorca at the Bernabéu , while Barcelona and Sevilla , the other title challengers, faced Gimnàstic de Tarragona and Villarreal respectively. At half time Real were 0–1 down, while Barcelona had surged ahead into a 0–3 lead in Tarragona ; however, three goals in the last half-an-hour secured Real Madrid a 3–1 win and their first league title since 2003.  The first goal came from Reyes who scored after a good work from Higuaín . An own goal followed by another goal from Reyes allowed Real to begin celebrating the title.  Thousands of Real Madrid fans began going to Plaza de Cibeles to celebrate the title.  , On 1 June 2009, Florentino Pérez regained Real Madrid's presidency.  Pérez continued with the Galácticos policy pursued in his first term, buying Kaká from Milan for a record-breaking sum of £56 million,  and then breaking the record again by purchasing Cristiano Ronaldo from Manchester United for £80 million.  , José Mourinho took over as manager in May 2010.   In April 2011, a strange occurrence happened when, for the first time ever, four Clásicos were to be played in a span of eighteen days. The first fixture was for the Liga campaign on 17 April (which ended 1–1 with penalty goals for both sides), the Copa del Rey final (which ended 1–0 to Madrid), and the controversial two-legged Champions League semifinal on 27 April and 2 May (3–1 loss on aggregate) to Barcelona.  , In the 2011–12 La Liga season, Real Madrid won the league, a record 32nd time in La Liga history and finished the season with a number of records including 100 points in a single season, a record 121 goals scored & goal difference of +89, and a record 16 away wins and 32 overall wins.  In the same season, Cristiano Ronaldo become the fastest player to reach 100 goals in Spanish league history. In reaching 101 goals in 92 games, Ronaldo surpassed Real Madrid legend Ferenc Puskás , who scored 100 goals in 105 games. Ronaldo set a new club mark for individual goals scored in one year (60), and became the first player ever to score against all 19 opposition teams in a single season.   , Real Madrid began the 2012–13 season by winning the Supercopa de España , defeating Barcelona on away goals, but finished as second in the league competition. A major transfer of the season was signing from Tottenham Hotspur of Luka Modrić , for a fee in the region of £33 million. In the Champions League , they were drawn in the "group of death" with Borussia Dortmund, Manchester City and Ajax, finishing second with ten points behind Dortmund. In the 16 round they defeated Manchester United, Galatasaray in the quarter finals, and reached their third straight semifinal finish in the Champions League, when they were again stopped by Dortmund. After a disappointing extra time loss to Atlético Madrid in the 2013 Copa del Rey final (which broke a 14-year skid for Atleti ), Florentino Perez announced the departure of Mourinho at the end of the season by "mutual agreement".   Mourinho returned to the English Premier League with Chelsea , a team he managed from 2004 to 2007. , On 25 June 2013, Carlo Ancelotti succeeded Mourinho to become the manager of Real Madrid on a three-year deal.  A day later, he was introduced at his first press conference for Madrid where it was announced that both Zinedine Zidane and Paul Clement will be his assistants.  On 1 September 2013, the long-awaited transfer from Spurs of Gareth Bale was announced. The transfer of the Welshman was reportedly the new world record signing, with the transfer price expected to be around €100 million.  In Ancelotti's first season at the club, Real Madrid won the Copa del Rey, with Bale scoring the winner in the final against Barcelona.  On 24 May, Real Madrid defeated city rivals Atlético Madrid in the 2014 UEFA Champions League Final , winning their first European title since 2002,  and they became the first team to win ten European Cups, an achievement known as "La Décima".  , After winning the 2014 UEFA Champions League, Real Madrid signed goalkeeper Keylor Navas , midfielder Toni Kroos and attacking midfielder James Rodríguez during the summer of 2014.  The club won the 2014 UEFA Super Cup against Sevilla with two goals by Cristiano Ronaldo, the club's 79th official trophy.  During the last week of the transfer week, Real Madrid sold Xabi Alonso to FC Bayern Munich and Ángel Di María completed his move to Manchester United F.C. for a British record fee of €75m (£59.7m), two key players in last season's Champions League success. This decision from the club was surrounded by controversy with Ronaldo stating "If I was in charge, maybe I would have done things differently", while Ancelotti admitted "We must start again from zero."   , After a slow start to the 2014–2015 La Liga season, which included defeats to Atlético Madrid and Real Sociedad , Real Madrid went on a record breaking winning streak, which included wins against FC Barcelona and Liverpool F.C. , surpassing the previous Spanish record of 18 successive wins set by Frank Rijkaard 's FC Barcelona in the 2005–2006 season.  In December 2014, the club extended their winning streak to 22 games with a 2–0 win over San Lorenzo in the 2014 FIFA Club World Cup Final , thus ending the year with 4 trophies.  Their 22-game winning streak ended in their opening game of 2015 with a loss to Valencia , leaving the club two short of equalling the world record of 24 consecutive wins.  The club failed to retain the Champions League (losing 3–2 on aggregate vs Juventus in the semi-finals) and also the Copa del Rey (4–2 aggregate loss to Atletico) - further disappointment in failing to land the league title (finishing two points and a place behind champions Barcelona) preceded Ancelotti's sacking on 25 May 2015.  , The first crest had a simple design consisting of a decorative interlacing of the three initials of the club, "MCF" for Madrid Club de Fútbol, in dark blue on a white shirt. The first change in the crest occurred in 1908 when the letters adopted a more streamlined form and appeared inside a circle.  The next change in the configuration of the crest did not occur until the presidency of Pedro Parages in 1920. At that time, King Alfonso XIII granted the club his royal patronage which came in the form of the title "Real Madrid", meaning "Royal".  Thus, Alfonso's crown was added to the crest and the club styled itself Real Madrid Club de Fútbol .  , With the dissolution of the monarchy in 1931, all the royal symbols (the crown on the crest and the title of Real) were eliminated. The crown was replaced by the dark mulberry band of the Region of Castile.  In 1941, two years after the end of the Civil War , the crest's "Real Corona", or "Royal Crown", was restored while the mulberry stripe of Castile was retained as well.  In addition, the whole crest was made full color, with gold being the most prominent, and the club was again called Real Madrid Club de Fútbol.  The most recent modification to the crest occurred in 2001 when the club wanted to better situate itself for the 21st century and further standardize its crest. One of the modifications made was changing the mulberry stripe to a more bluish shade.  , Real Madrid's traditional home colours are all white, although before its foundation in the club first game against themselves they adopted a blue and a red oblique stripe on the shirt to differentiate the two teams (the club crest design has a purple stripe which isn't associated to this. It was incorporated the year they lost the royal crown, as it the traditional region of Castile colour); but unlike today, black socks were worn. Lastly, the black socks will be replaced by dark blue ones.   Real Madrid has maintained the white shirt for its home kit throughout the history of the club. There was however one season that the shirt and shorts were not both white. It was an initiative undertaken by Escobal and Quesada in 1925, the two were traveling through England when they noticed the kit worn by London-based team Corinthian F.C. , one of the most famous teams at the time known for its elegance and sportsmanship. It was decided that Real Madrid would wear black shorts in an attempt to look like the English team but the initiative lasted only one year. After being eliminated from the cup by Barcelona with a 1–5 defeat in Madrid and a 2–0 defeat in Catalonia, President Parages decided to return to an all-white kit claiming that the other brought bad luck. Years later, Leeds United switched their blue shirt for a white one after marveling at Real Madrid's 7–3 Victory against Eintracht Frankfurt in Glasgow's Hampden Park .  By the early 1940s, the manager changed the kit again by adding buttons to the shirt and the club's crest on the left breast (which has remained ever since). On 23 November 1947, in a game against Atlético Madrid at the Metropolitano Stadium, Real Madrid became the first Spanish team to wear numbered shirts.  , Real's traditional away colours are all blue or all purple. Since the advent of the replica kit market, the club has also released various other one colour designs, including red, green, orange and black. The club's kit is currently manufactured by Adidas whose contract extends from 1998.   Real Madrid's first shirt sponsor, Zanussi , agreed for the 1982–83, 1983–84 and 1984–85 seasons. Following that, the club was sponsored by Parmalat and Otaysa before a long-term deal was signed with Teka in 1992.   In 2001, Real Madrid ended their contract with Teka and for one season used the Realmadrid.com logo to promote the club's website. Then, in 2002, a deal was signed with Siemens Mobile and in 2006, the BenQ Siemens logo appeared on the club's shirt.  Real Madrid's shirt sponsor from 2007 until 2013 was bwin.com following the economic problems of BenQ Siemens.   It is currently Fly Emirates. , Source:  , * Realmadrid.com appeared as shirt sponsor to promote the club's new website. , After moving between grounds the team moved to the Campo de O'Donnell in 1912, which remained its home ground for eleven years.  After this period, the club moved for one year to the Campo de Ciudad Lineal , a small ground with a capacity of 8,000 spectators. After that, Real Madrid moved its home matches to Estadio Chamartín which was inaugurated on 17 May 1923 with a match against Newcastle United .  In this stadium, which hosted 22,500 spectators, Real Madrid celebrated its first Spanish league title.  After some successes, the 1943 elected president Santiago Bernabéu decided that the Estadio Chamartín was not big enough for the ambitions of the club. A new stadium was built and was inaugurated on 14 December 1947.   This was the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium as it is known today, although it did not acquire this name until 1955.  The first match held on Bernabéu was played between Real Madrid and the Portuguese club Belenenses and won by The Whites with 3–1, the first goal being scored by Sabino Barinaga.  , The capacity has changed frequently, peaking at 120,000 after a 1953 expansion.  Since then, there have been a number of reductions due to modernizations (the last standing places went away in 1998–99 in response to UEFA regulations which forbids standing at matches in the UEFA competition), countered to some extent by expansions.  The last change was an increase of about five thousand to a capacity of 85,454, effected in 2011. A plan to add a retractable roof has been announced.  Real Madrid has the fourth highest of the average attendances of European football clubs only behind Borussia Dortmund , FC Barcelona , and Manchester United .     , The Bernabéu has hosted the 1964 European Championship final, the 1982 FIFA World Cup final, the 1957 , 1969 and 1980 European Cup finals and the 2010 Champions League Final .  The stadium has its own Madrid Metro station along the 10 line called Santiago Bernabéu .  On 14 November 2007, the Bernabéu has been upgraded to Elite Football Stadium status by UEFA.  , On 9 May 2006, the Alfredo Di Stéfano Stadium was inaugurated at the City of Madrid where Real Madrid usually trains. The inaugural match was played between Real Madrid and Stade Reims , a rematch of the 1956 European Cup final. Real Madrid won the match 6–1 with goals from Sergio Ramos , Cassano (2), Soldado (2), and Jurado . The venue is now part of the Ciudad Real Madrid , the club's new training facilities located outside Madrid in Valdebebas. The stadium holds 5,000 people and is Real Madrid Castilla 's home ground. It is named after former Real footballer Alfredo Di Stéfano.  , Raúl holds the record for most Real Madrid appearances, having played 741 first-team matches from 1994 to 2010. Manuel Sanchis, Jr. comes third after Iker Casillas (721*), having played 711 times.  The record for a goalkeeper is held by Iker Casillas , with 721 appearances. With 152 caps (all at the club), he is also Real's most capped international player. While with 127 caps (47 while at the club), Luís Figo of Portugal is Real's most capped foreign international player.  , Raúl is Real's all-time top goalscorer, with 323 goals in 741 games (1994–2010).  Five other players have also scored over 200 goals for Real: Alfredo Di Stéfano (1953–64), Santillana (1971–88), Ferenc Puskás (1958–66), Hugo Sánchez (1985–92) and Cristiano Ronaldo (2009- Present). Portuguese Cristiano Ronaldo holds the record for the most league goals scored in one season (46 in 2011–12). Di Stéfano's 49 goals in 58 matches was for decades the all-time highest tally in the European Cup, until it was surpassed by Raúl in 2005, which now is held by Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi with 76 goals. The fastest goal in the history of the club (15 seconds) was scored by Brazilian Ronaldo on 3 December 2003 during a league match against Atlético Madrid .  , Officially, the highest home attendance figure for a Real Madrid match is 83,329, which was for a football cup competition, Copa del Rey , in 2006. The current legal capacity of Estadio Santiago Bernabéu is 80,354.  The club's average attendance in 2007–08 season was 76,234, the highest in European Leagues .  Real has also set records in Spanish football, most notably the most domestic titles (32 as of 2012–13) and the most seasons won in a row (5, during 1960–65 and 1985–90).  With 121 matches (from 17 February 1957 to 7 March 1965), the club holds the record for longest unbeaten run at home in La Liga.  , The club also hold the record for winning the European Cup/UEFA Champions League ten times  and for the most semi-final appearances (25). Raúl González is as of February 2015 [update] the third highest scorer in the UEFA Champions League , with 71 goals in total, 66 while playing for Real Madrid. The team has the record number of consecutive participations in the European Cup (before it became the Champions League) with 15, from 1955–56 to 1969–70.  Among the club's on-field records is a 22-game winning streak in all competitions during the 2014-2015 season , a Spanish record.  The same season the team tied the win-streak for games in the UEFA Champions League, with ten.  , In June 2009, the club broke its own record for the highest transfer fee ever paid in the history of football by agreeing to pay Manchester United €96 million (US$131.5 million, £ 80 million) for the services of Cristiano Ronaldo .   The fee of €76 million (over $100 million, £45.8 million) for Zinedine Zidane 's transfer from Juventus to Real Madrid in 2001 was the previous highest transfer fee ever paid. This record had been broken previously in June 2009, for a few days, when Real Madrid agreed to buy Kaká from A.C. Milan . The transfer of Tottenham Hotspur 's Gareth Bale , in 2013, was reportedly the new world record signing, with the transfer price expected to be around €100 million.  The club's sale record came on 26 August 2014, when Manchester United signed Ángel Di María for €75 million.  , During most home matches the majority of the seats in the stadium are occupied by season ticket holders, of which there are average of 68,670.  To become a season ticket holder one must first be a socio , or club member. In addition to members, the club has more than 1,800  peñas (official, club-affiliated supporters' groups) in Spain and around the world. Real Madrid has the second highest average all-time attendance in Spanish football and regularly attracts over 74,000 fans to Santiago Bernabéu ; it was the second best-supported La Liga team in the 2004–05 season, with an average gate of 71,900.  Real Madrid is one of the best supported teams globally, and has the second largest social media following in the world among all sports teams, after FC Barcelona , with over 75 million Facebook fans by October 2014.   , Real Madrid's hardcore supporters are the so-called Ultras Sur supporters, or simply Ultras. They are known for their extreme right-wing politics , akin to FC Barcelona 's hardcore supporters group Boixos Nois . The Ultras Surs have developed an alliance with other right wing groups, most notably S.S. Lazio Irriducibili fans, and have also developed an alliance with left-wing groups. On several occasions they have racially abused opposing players, and have been investigated by UEFA for doing so.   Florentino Perez took it upon himself to ban the Ultras from the Bernabéu, and assign their seats to the general public. This decision was controversial with some of the Bernabéu faithful as the lively atmosphere of games would suffer as a result.   The Ultras have since held protests outside the Bernabéu and have demanded to be reinstated, and to be allowed to enter the grounds.  , There is often a fierce rivalry between the two strongest teams in a national league, and this is particularly the case in La Liga, where the game between Real Madrid and Barcelona is known as 'The Classic' ( El Clásico ). From the start of national competitions the clubs were seen as representatives of two rival regions in Spain: Catalonia and Castile , as well as of the two cities. The rivalry reflects what many regard as the political and cultural tensions felt between Catalans and the Castilians , seen by one author as a re-enactment of the Spanish Civil War .  Over the years, the record from Real Madrid and Barcelona is 81 victories for Madrid, 76 victories for Barcelona, and 39 draws.  , During the dictatorships of Primo de Rivera and especially of Francisco Franco (1939–1975), all regional cultures were suppressed. All of the languages spoken in Spanish territory, except Spanish ( Castilian ) itself, were officially banned.   Symbolising the Catalan people's desire for freedom, Barcelona became 'More than a club' ( Més que un club ) for the Catalans. According to Manuel Vázquez Montalbán , the best way for the Catalans to demonstrate their identity was by joining Barcelona. It was less risky than joining a clandestine anti-Franco movement, and allowed them to express their dissidence.  During Franco's regime, however, the blaugrana team was granted profit due to its good relationship with the dictator at management level, even giving two awards to him.  , On the other hand, Real Madrid was widely seen as the embodiment of the sovereign oppressive centralism and the fascist regime at management level and beyond– Santiago Bernabéu , the former club president for whom Real Madrid's stadium is named, fought on the Nationalist side during the Spanish Civil War .   However, during the war, members of both clubs such as Josep Sunyol and Rafael Sánchez Guerra suffered at the hands of Franco supporters. , During the 1950s the rivalry was exacerbated further when there was a controversy surrounding the transfer of Alfredo di Stéfano , who finally played for Real Madrid and was key to their subsequent success.  The 1960s saw the rivalry reach the European stage when they met twice in a controversial knock-out round of the European Cup, with Madrid receiving unfavourable treatment from the referee.   In 2002, the European encounter between the clubs was dubbed the "Match of The Century" by Spanish media, and Madrid's win was watched by more than 500 million people.  , The club's nearest neighbour is Atlético Madrid , a rivalry being shared between fans of both football teams. Although Atlético was originally founded by three Basque students in 1903, it was joined in 1904 by dissident members of Madrid FC . Tensions escalated further after Atlético were merged with the football team of the Spanish airforce (and thus renamed Atlético Aviación), and in the 1940s Atlético was perceived as the preferred team of Franco's regime, before he revelled in Real's European success in the 1950s .   Furthermore, Real supporters initially came from the middle and upper classes while the Atlético supporters were drawn from the working class. Today these distinctions are largely blurred. They met for the first time on 21 February 1929 in matchday three of the first League Championship at the former Chamartín . It was the first official derby of the new tournament, and Real won 2–1.  , The rivalry first gained international attention in 1959 during the European Cup when the two clubs met in the semi-final. Real won the first leg 2–1 at the Bernabéu while Atlético won 1–0 at the Metropolitano . The tie went to a replay which Real won 2–1. Atlético, however, gained some revenge when, led by former Real Madrid coach José Villalonga , it defeated its city rivals in two successive Copa del Generalísimo finals in 1960 and 1961.  , Between 1961 and 1989, when Real dominated La Liga , only Atlético offered it any serious challenge, winning Liga titles in 1966, 1970, 1973 and 1977. In 1965, Atlético became the first team to beat Real at the Bernabéu in eight years. Real Madrid's record against Atlético in more recent times is very favorable.  A high point coming in the 2002–03 season , when Real clinched the La Liga title after a 0–4 victory at Atlético at the Vicente Calderón Stadium . Atlético Madrid's first win over city rivals since 1999 came with Copa del Rey win in May 2013. In 2013–14, Real and Atlético were finalists of UEFA Champions League , the first final which hosted 2 clubs from same city. Real Madrid triumphed with 4–1 in extra time.  On 7 February 2015, Real suffered their first defeat in 14 years at the Vicente Calderón, a 4-0 loss.  , Real Madrid and Bayern Munich are two of the most successful clubs in the UEFA Champions League/European Cup competition, Real winning 10 times and Bayern winning 5 times. Real Madrid versus Bayern is the match that has historically been played most often in the Champions League with 14 matches and the European Cup with 19 matches. Real's biggest loss at home in the Champions League came at the hands of Bayern on 29 February 2000: 2–4.  Real Madrid supporters often refer to Bayern as the " Bestia negra " ("Black Beast"). The two teams met in the 2011–12 Champions League semi-finals which resulted in 3–3 on aggregate, forcing extra time and penalties. Bayern won 3–1 on penalties to reach their first ever home Champions League final. They then again met in 2013–14 UEFA Champions League semi-finals , a rematch of the 2012 semi-final, with Real Madrid winning 5–0 on aggregate.  , It was under Florentino Pérez's first presidency (2000–2006) that Real Madrid started its ambition of becoming the world's richest professional football club.  The club ceded part of its training grounds to the city of Madrid in 2001, and sold the rest to four corporations: Repsol YPF, Mutua Automovilística de Madrid, Sacyr Vallehermoso and OHL. The sale eradicated the club's debts, paving the way for it to buy the world's most expensive players such as Zinédine Zidane , Luís Figo , Ronaldo and David Beckham . The city had previously rezoned the training grounds for development, a move which in turn increased their value, and then bought the site.  The European Commission started an investigation into whether the city overpaid for the property, to be considered a form of state subsidy.  , The sale of the training ground for office buildings cleared Real Madrid's debts of €270 million and enabled the club to embark upon an unprecedented spending spree which brought big-name players to the club. In addition, profit from the sale was spent on a state-of-the-art training complex on the city's outskirts.  Although Pérez's policy resulted in increased financial success from the exploitation of the club's high marketing potential around the world, especially in Asia, it came under increasing criticism for being too focused on marketing the Real Madrid brand, and not enough on the performances of the team.  , By September 2007, Real Madrid was considered the most valuable football brand in Europe by BBDO . In 2008, it was ranked the second most valuable club in football, with a value of €951 million (£640 million / $1.285 billion),  only beaten by Manchester United, which was valued at €1.333 billion (£900 million).  In 2010, Real Madrid had the highest turnover in football worldwide.  In September 2009, Real Madrid's management announced plans to open its own dedicated theme park by 2013.  , A study at Harvard University concluded that Real Madrid "is one of the 20 most important brand names and the only one in which its executives, the players, are well-known. We have some spectacular figures in regard to worldwide support of the club. There are an estimated 287 million people worldwide who follow Real Madrid."  In 2010, Forbes evaluated Real Madrid's worth to be around €992 million (US$1.323 billion), ranking them second after Manchester United, based on figures from the 2008–09 season.   According to Deloitte , Real Madrid had a recorded revenue of €401 million in the same period, ranking first.  , Along with FC Barcelona, Athletic Bilbao, and Osasuna , Real Madrid is organised as a registered association. This means that Real Madrid is owned by its supporters who elect the club president. The club president cannot invest his own money into the club  it can only spend what it earns, this is mainly derived through merchandise sales, television rights and ticket sales. Unlike a limited company , it is not possible to purchase shares in the club, but only membership.  The members of Real Madrid, called socios , form an assembly of delegates which is the highest governing body of the club.  As of 2010 the club has 60,000 socios .  At the end of the 2009–10 season, the club board of directors of the club stated that Real Madrid had a net debt of €244.6 million, €82.1 million lower than the previous fiscal year. Real Madrid announced that it had a net debt of €170 million after the 2010–11 season. From 2007 to 2011 the club made a net profit of €190 million.   , During the 2009–10 season Real Madrid made €150 million through ticket sales, which was the highest in top-flight football.  The club has the highest number of shirt sales a season, around 1.5 million.  , For the 2010–11 season its wage bill totalled €169 million, which was second highest in Europe behind FC Barcelona.  However its wage bill to turnover ratio was the best in Europe at 43%, ahead of Manchester United and Arsenal at 46% and 50% respectively. In 2013, Forbes listed the club as the world's most valuable sports team, worth $3.3 billion.  , Real Madrid was the featured club in the second edition of the Goal! football movie trilogy, Goal! 2: Living the Dream... (2007). The film follows former Newcastle United star Santiago Muñez as he is first scouted, and then signed by Real Madrid for the 2005–06 season. The film's creators wanted to put emphasis on the changes in Muñez's life after his move to Madrid. Production was done with the full support of UEFA, allowing the film crew to use many real life players in cameo roles. Real Madrid squad members featured in the film included Iker Casillas , Zinedine Zidane , David Beckham , Ronaldo , Roberto Carlos , Raúl , Sergio Ramos , Robinho , Thomas Gravesen , Michael Owen , Míchel Salgado , Júlio Baptista , Steve McManaman , Jonathan Woodgate , and Iván Helguera . Non-Real Madrid players to make cameo appearances included Ronaldinho , Thierry Henry , Lionel Messi , Samuel Eto'o , Andrés Iniesta , Pablo Aimar , Fredrik Ljungberg , Cesc Fàbregas , Santiago Cañizares and others. In the film, both Florentino Pérez and Alfredo Di Stéfano presented the fictional player Muñez to the club after his signing.  , Real, The Movie is a 2005 part feature, part documentary film that showcases the world-wide passion for Real Madrid C.F. Produced by the club and directed by Borja Manso, it follows five sub-stories of fans from around the world and their love for Real Madrid. Along with the fictional portion of the film, it also contains real footage of the squad, during training at Ciudad Real Madrid , matches, and interviews. Although the film mentions all of the squad, it mainly focuses on galácticos such as David Beckham , Zinedine Zidane , Raúl , Luís Figo , Ronaldo , Iker Casillas , and Roberto Carlos , among others. The film was originally produced in Spanish, but has been dubbed for their world-wide fanbase. , The book White Storm: 100 years of Real Madrid by Phil Ball was the first English-language history of Real Madrid. Published in 2002, it talks about the most successful moments of the club during its first centenary, having been translated into various languages. , In late 2011, Real Madrid released a digital music album, entitled Legends , and a remix of the club's anthem, "Himno del Real Madrid", was released as the first single from the album.  , Real Madrid TV is an encrypted digital television channel, operated by Real Madrid and specialising in the club. The channel is available in Spanish and English. It is located at Ciudad Real Madrid in Valdebebas (Madrid), Real Madrid's training centre. , As of 24 May 2014, Real Madrid have won a record 32 La Liga , a record 10 European Cup / UEFA Champions League , and a shared record 3 Intercontinental Cup trophies. The club was awarded with the recognition of "FIFA Club of the 20th Century" on 23 December 2000,  and named "Best European Club of the 20th Century" by the IFFHS in London on 11 May 2010.   It also received the FIFA Order of Merit in 2004. Added to this, Real is allowed to wear a multiple–winner badge on their shirt during UEFA Champions League matches as they have won more than five European Cups.  , Spanish teams are limited to three players without EU citizenship. The squad list includes only the principal nationality of each player; several non-European players on the squad have dual citizenship with an EU country. Also, players from the ACP countries —countries in Africa, the Caribbean, and the Pacific that are signatories to the Cotonou Agreement —are not counted against non-EU quotas due to the Kolpak ruling . , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  Associazione Calcio Milan ( Italian pronunciation:  [assotʃatˈtsjoːne ˈkaltʃo ˈmiːlan]  ( listen ) ), commonly referred to as A.C. Milan or simply Milan , is a professional Italian football club based in Milan , Lombardy, that plays in Serie A . Milan was founded in 1899 by English lace-maker Herbert Kilpin and businessman Alfred Edwards among others.   The club has spent its entire history, with the exception of the 1980–81 and 1982–83 seasons, in the top flight of Italian football, known as Serie A since 1929–30.  , With 18 officially recognised UEFA and FIFA titles, they are the second most successful club in the world in terms of number of international titles, together with Boca Juniors and Real Madrid C.F. , and behind Al Ahly SC with twenty titles.    Milan has won a record of three Intercontinental Cups and one of its successor, the FIFA Club World Cup .  Milan have also won the European Cup/Champions League on seven occasions,  second only to Real Madrid.  They have also won the UEFA Super Cup a record five times and the Cup Winners' Cup twice.  Milan has won every major competition in which it has competed, with the exception of the Europa League (in this competition they have lost two semi-finals in 1972 and in 2002). Domestically, with 18 league titles Milan is the joint-second most successful club in Serie A behind Juventus (30 titles), along with local rivals Inter .  They have also won the Coppa Italia five times, as well as a joint record six Supercoppa Italiana triumphs.  , Milan's home games are played at San Siro , also known as the Stadio Giuseppe Meazza . The stadium, which is shared with long-lasting city rivals Internazionale, is the largest in Italian football, with a total capacity of 80,018.  Inter are considered their biggest rivals, and matches between the two teams are called Derby della Madonnina , which is one of the most followed derbies in football.  As of 2010, Milan is the third most supported team in Italy,  and the seventh most supported team in Europe, ahead of any other Italian team.  , The owner of the club is former Italian Prime Minister and controlling shareholder of Mediaset Silvio Berlusconi . The vice-president is Adriano Galliani . The club is one of the wealthiest and most valuable in Italian and world football.  It was a founding member of the now-defunct G-14 group of Europe's leading football clubs as well as its replacement, the European Club Association .  , , , A.C. Milan was founded as Milan Cricket and Foot-Ball Club on 13 December 1899 by English expatriates Alfred Edwards and Herbert Kilpin ,  who came from the English city of Nottingham . In honour of its English origins, the club has retained the English spelling of the city 's name, as opposed to the Italian spelling Milano which it was forced to bear under the fascist regime . Milan won its first Italian championship in 1901 and a further two in succession in 1906 and 1907 .  , In 1908, Milan experienced a split caused by internal disagreements over the signing of foreign players, which led to the forming of another Milan-based team, F.C. Internazionale Milano .  Following these events, Milan did not manage to win a single domestic title until 1950–51 .  The 1950s saw the club return to the top of Italian football, headed by the famous Gre-No-Li Swedish trio Gunnar Gren , Gunnar Nordahl and Nils Liedholm . This was one of the club's most successful periods domestically, with the Scudetto going to Milan in 1951 , 1955 , 1957 , 1959 and 1962 .  In 1963, Milan won its first continental title by beating S.L. Benfica in the final of the European Cup .  This success was repeated in 1969 , with a 4–1 win over AFC Ajax in the final , which was followed by the Intercontinental Cup title the same year.  During this period Milan also won its first Coppa Italia , with victory over Padova in the 1967 final, and three European Cup Winners' Cups ; in 1967–68 , 1972–73 and 1973–74 .  , Milan won a tenth league title in 1979 , but after the retirement of Gianni Rivera in the same year, the team went into a period of decline. The club was involved in the 1980 Totonero scandal and as punishment was relegated to Serie B for the first time in its history.  The scandal was centred around a betting syndicate paying players and officials to fix the outcome of matches.  Milan achieved promotion back to Serie A at the first attempt, winning the 1980–81 Serie B title,  but were again relegated a year later as the team ended its 1981–82 campaign in third last place. In 1983 , Milan won the Serie B title for the second time in three seasons to return to Serie A,  where they achieved a sixth-place finish in 1983–84 . , On 20 February 1986, entrepreneur Silvio Berlusconi acquired the club and saved it from bankruptcy investing vast amounts of money,  appointing rising manager Arrigo Sacchi at the helm of the Rossoneri and signing Netherlands internationals Ruud Gullit , Marco van Basten and Frank Rijkaard .  The Dutch trio added an attacking impetus to the team, and complemented the club's Italian internationals Paolo Maldini , Franco Baresi , Alessandro Costacurta and Roberto Donadoni . Under Sacchi, Milan won its first Scudetto in nine years in the 1987–88 season . The following year the club won its first European Cup in two decades, beating Romanian club Steaua București 4–0 in the final . Milan retained their title with a 1–0 win over Benfica a year later and remain the last team to win back-to-back European Cups .  The Milan team of 1989–90 has been voted the best club side of all time, in a global poll of experts conducted by World Soccer magazine .  , After Sacchi left Milan in 1991, he was replaced by the club's former player Fabio Capello whose team won three consecutive Serie A titles between 1992 and 1994 , a spell which included a 58 match unbeaten run in Serie A  and back-to-back UEFA Champions League final appearances in 1993 and 1994 . A year after losing 1–0 to Olympique de Marseille in the 1993 Champions League final , the team reached its peak in one of Milan's most memorable matches of all time, the famous 4–0 win over Barcelona in the 1994 Champions League final .  Capello's team went on to win the 1995–96 league title before he left to coach Real Madrid in 1996.  In 1998–99 , after a two-year period of decline, Milan lifted its 16th championship in the club's centenary season . , Milan's next period of success came under another former player, Carlo Ancelotti . After his appointment in November 2001, Ancelotti took Milan to the 2003 Champions League final , where they defeated Juventus on penalties to win the club's sixth European Cup.  The team then won the Scudetto in 2003–04 , before reaching the 2005 Champions League final , where they were beaten by Liverpool on penalties despite leading 3–0 at half time.  Two years later, the two teams met again in the 2007 Champions League final with Milan winning 2–1 to lift the title for a seventh time.   The team then won its first FIFA Club World Cup in December 2007.  In 2009, after becoming Milan's second longest serving coach, with 420 matches overseen,  Ancelotti left the club to take over as head-coach at Chelsea . , During this period, the club was involved in the Calciopoli scandal , where five teams were accused of fixing matches by selecting favourable referees.  A police inquiry excluded any involvement of Milan managers,  but FIGC unilaterally decided that it had sufficient evidence to charge Milan vice-president, Adriano Galliani . As a result, Milan was initially punished with a 15-point deduction and was banned from the 2006–07 UEFA Champions League . An appeal saw that penalty reduced to eight points,  which allowed the club to retain its Champions League participation. , Following the aftermath of Calciopoli, local rivals Internazionale dominated Serie A, winning four Scudetti. However, with the help a strong squad boasting players such as Zlatan Ibrahimović , Robinho and Alexandre Pato joining many of the veterans of the club's mid-decade European successes, Milan recaptured the Scudetto in the 2010–11 Serie A season , their first since the 2003–04 season , and 18th overall.   , Red and black are the colours which have represented the club throughout its entire history. They were chosen to represent the players' fiery ardor (red) and the opponents' fear to challenge the team (black). Rossoneri , the team's widely used nickname, literally means "the red & blacks" in Italian, in reference to the colours of the stripes on its jersey.  , Another nickname derived from the club's colours is the Devil . An image of a red devil was used as Milan's logo at one point with a Golden Star for Sport Excellence located next to it.  As is customary in Italian football, the star above the logo was awarded to the club after winning 10 league titles, in 1979. For many years, Milan's badge was simply the Flag of Milan , which was originally the flag of Saint Ambrose .  The modern badge used today represents the club colours and the flag of the Comune di Milano , with the acronym ACM at the top and the foundation year (1899) at the bottom.  , White shorts and black socks are usually worn as part of the home strip. Milan's away strip has always been completely white.  It is considered by both the fans and the club to be a lucky strip in Champions League finals, due to the fact that Milan has won six finals out of eight in an all white strip (losing only to Ajax in 1995 and Liverpool in 2005), and only won one out of three in the home strip. The third strip, which is rarely used, changes yearly, being mostly black with red trimmings in recent seasons. , The team's stadium is the 80,018 seat San Siro , officially known as Stadio Giuseppe Meazza after the former player who represented both Milan and Internazionale . The more commonly used name, San Siro , is the name of the district where it is located. San Siro has been the home of Milan since 1926, when it was privately built by funding from Milan's president at the time, Piero Pirelli . Construction was performed by 120 workers, and took 13 and a half months to complete. The stadium was owned by the club until it was sold to the city council in 1935, and since 1947 has been shared with Internazionale, when the other major Milanese club was accepted as joint tenant. , The first game played at the stadium was on 19 September 1926, when Milan lost 6–3 in a friendly match against Internazionale. Milan played its first league game in San Siro on 19 September 1926, losing 1–2 to Sampierdarenese . From an initial capacity of 35,000 spectators, the stadium has undergone several major renovations, most recently in preparation for the 1990 FIFA World Cup when its capacity was set to 85,700, all covered with a polycarbonate roof. In the summer of 2008 its capacity has been reduced to 80,018, to meet the new standards set by UEFA . , Based on the English model for stadiums, San Siro is specifically designed for football matches, as opposed to many multi-purpose stadiums used in Serie A. It is therefore renowned in Italy for its fantastic atmosphere during matches, thanks to the closeness of the stands to the pitch. The frequent use of flares by supporters contributes to the atmosphere but the practice has occasionally caused problems. , On 19 December 2005, Milan vice-president and executive director Adriano Galliani announced that the club is seriously working towards a relocation. He said that Milan's new stadium will be largely based on the Veltins-Arena and will follow the standards of football stadiums in the United States, Germany and Spain. As opposed to many other stadiums in Italy, Milan's new stadium will likely be used for football only, having no athletics track. , On 11 December 2014, Barbara Berlusconi announced a proposal to build a property stadium of 42,000 seats in Portello , behind the new HQ of the Rossoneri, and the big square "Piazza Gino Valle". The new village with shopping malls and hotel is located near CityLife district and is served by the metro .  , Milan is one of the best supported football clubs in Italy, according to research conducted by Italian newspaper La Repubblica .  Historically, Milan was supported by the city's working-class and trade unionists.  On the other hand, crosstown rivals Internazionale were mainly supported by the more prosperous and typically Milanese middle-class.  One of the oldest ultras groups in all of Italian football, Fossa dei Leoni , originated in Milan.  Currently, the main ultras group within the support base is Brigate Rossonere .  Politically, Milan ultras have never had any particular preference,  but the media traditionally associated them with the left-wing,  until recently, when Berlusconi's presidency somewhat altered that view.  , According to a study from 2010, Milan is the most supported Italian team in Europe and seventh overall, with over 18.4 million fans.  AC Milan had the ninth highest average attendance of European football clubs during the 2010–11 season, behind Borussia Dortmund , FC Barcelona , Manchester United , Real Madrid , Bayern Munich , Schalke , Arsenal , and Hamburg .      , Genoa fans consider Milan a hated rival after Genoa fan, Vincenzo Spagnolo was stabbed to death by a Milan supporter in January 1995.  However, Milan's main rivalry is with neighbour club, Internazionale; both clubs meet in the widely anticipated Derby della Madonnina twice every Serie A season. The name of the derby refers to the Blessed Virgin Mary , whose statue atop the Milan Cathedral is one of the city's main attractions. The match usually creates a lively atmosphere, with numerous (often humorous or offensive) banners unfolded before the start of the game. Flares are commonly present and contribute to the spectacle but they have occasionally led to problems, including the abandonment of the second leg of the 2004–05 Champions League quarterfinal match between Milan and Inter on 12 April 2005, after a flare thrown from the crowd by an Inter supporter struck Milan keeper Dida on the shoulder.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , * Might be restored for one of his two sons, should either of them play professionally for the club. , Milan has had numerous presidents over the course of its history, some of whom have been owners of the club while others have been honorary presidents. Here is a complete list of them.  , Below is a list of Milan coaches from 1900 until the present day.  , Milan is one of the most successful clubs in Italy, having won a total of 29 major trophies, and was the most successful club in the world in terms of international trophies until February 2014, when Al Ahly SC claimed that title.   It is now the second most successful club, together with Real Madrid , Barcelona and Boca Juniors ,  with a record of fourteen European trophies and four world titles. Milan has earned the right to place a star on its jersey in recognition of the fact that it has won at least ten scudetti . In addition, the club is permanently allowed to display a multiple-winner badge on its shirt as it has won more than five European Championship Cups.  , Paolo Maldini holds the records for both total appearances and Serie A appearances for Milan, with 902 official games played in total and 647 in Serie A (as of 31 May 2009, not including playoff matches),  the latter being an all time Serie A record.  , Swedish forward Gunnar Nordahl scored 38 goals in the 1950–51 season, 35 of which were in Serie A, setting an Italian football and club record. He went on to become Milan's all-time top goalscorer, scoring 221 goals for the club in 268 games.  He is followed in second place by Andriy Shevchenko with 175 goals in 322 games, and Gianni Rivera in third place, who has scored 164 goals in 658 games. Rivera is also Milan's youngest ever goalscorer, scoring in a league match against Juventus at just 17 years. , Legendary tactician Nereo Rocco , the first proponent of catenaccio in the country, was Milan's longest serving head coach, sitting on the bench for over 9 years (in two spells) in the 1960s and early 1970s, winning the club's first European Cup triumphs. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi , who purchased the club in 1986, is Milan's longest serving president (23 years, due to a two-year vacancy between 2004 and 2006). , The first official match in which Milan participated was in the Third Federal Football Championship , the predecessor of Serie A, losing 3–0 to Torinese . Milan's biggest ever victory was 13–0 versus Audax Modena , in a league match at the 1914–15 season. Its heaviest defeat was recorded in the league at the 1922–23 season, beaten 0–8 by Bologna . , During the 1991–92 season , the club achieved the feature of being the first team to win the Serie A title without losing a single game. Previously, only Perugia had managed to go unbeaten over an entire Serie A season ( 1978–79 ), but finished second in the table. In total, Milan's unbeaten streak lasted 58 games, starting with a 0–0 draw against Parma on 26 May 1991 and coincidentally ending with a 1–0 home loss to Parma on 21 March 1993. This is a Serie A record as well as the third longest unbeaten run in top flight European football, coming in behind Steaua Bucureşti 's record of 104 unbeaten games and Celtic 's 68 game unbeaten run.   , Along with Boca Juniors , Milan won more FIFA recognised international club titles than any other club in the world.  , The sale of Kaká to Real Madrid in 2009, broke the 8-year-old world football transfer record held by Zinedine Zidane , costing the Spanish club €67 million  (about £56 million  ) However, that record lasted for less than a month, broken by Cristiano Ronaldo 's £80 million transfer.  This record, however, is in terms of nominal British pound rates, not adjusted to inflation or the real value in Euro, the currency used in Italy and Spain. Madrid bought Zidane for €75 million in 2001,   about £46 million at that time. , Milan is a subsidiary of Fininvest Group since 1986. As of 31 December 2013, Fininvest owned 99.92973% shares of A.C. Milan SpA.  The office of club president has been vacant since 8 May 2008, following a new Italian law that forbids the country's prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi , to have other managing roles in private companies or clubs.  The vice-president and CEO of the company is Adriano Galliani . In 2011 Berlusconi became the honorary president of the club, despite he was stepped down as Italian prime minister. , According to The Football Money League published by consultants Deloitte , in the 2005–06 season, Milan was the fifth highest earning football club in the world with an estimated revenue of €233.7 million.  However it fell to 8th in 2011–12 season,  10th in 2012–13 and 12th in 2013–14 season. The club is also ranked as the eighth wealthiest football club in the world by Forbes magazine as of 2014, making it the wealthiest in Italian football, however just suppressed 9th (Juventus) in a narrow gap.  , Emirates is the current main sponsor for Milan's shirt starting from 2010–11 season until 2019–20 season,  after 4 years with Austrian online betting company bwin.com as the sponsor. , Previously, the German car manufacturer Opel (owned by GM ) had sponsored Milan for 12 seasons. For most of them, Opel was displayed on the front of the shirt, but in the 2003–04 and the 2005–06 seasons respectively, Meriva and Zafira (two cars from their range) were displayed. [ citation needed ] , The current shirts are supplied by German sportswear manufacturer Adidas , whose deal runs until 2023.  The deal makes Adidas the official manufacturer of all kits, training equipment and replica outfits. Prior to Adidas, the Italian sports company Lotto produced Milan's sportswear. , AC Milan Group made an aggregate net loss in recent year, was one of the largest among the Italian clubs, which: 2005, net loss of €4.5 million (separate account);  2006, a net income of €11.904 million (contributed by the sales of Shevchenko );  2007, a net loss of €32 million;  2008, a net loss of €77 million;  2009, a net loss of €19 million (contributed by the sales of Kaká );  2010 a net loss of €65 million;  2011 a net loss of €67.334 million,  a net loss of €6.857 million in 2012 (contributed by the sales of Thiago Silva and Ibrahimović ).  and a net loss of €15.7 million in 2013 (contributed by the sales of Boateng and Pato and decrease in wage bill) , AC Milan had re-capitalization of €75 million in 2007 financial year;  €93 million in 2008; €18 million in 2009  and €44 million in 2010  (€20.9 million of the capital increase was converted from shareholder loan ); €87 million in 2011;  €29 million in 2012  ans most recently €3.75 million in 2013.  However, the group has had negative equity at the end of each fiscal year since 2006. The balance was €40.8 million in 2006, €47.5 million in 2007, €64.5 million in 2008, €72 million in 2009, €96.6 million in 2010, €77.091 million in 2011, €54.948 million in 2012 and €66.921 million in 2013. , Milan had a team in the Superleague Formula race car series where teams are sponsored by football clubs. Robert Doornbos , formerly driving for Minardi and Red Bull Racing in the Formula One World Championship, drove for Milan in 2008.  Doornbos won his first race for the team at Nürburgring , Germany. Giorgio Pantano is driving for Milan in the 2009 season and he has also won races for the team.  The team folded in 2010 along with the series in 2011.  Fußball-Club Bayern München e.V. , commonly known as FC Bayern München , FCB ( German pronunciation: [ʔɛf t͡seː ˈbaɪ̯ɐn ˈmʏnçn̩] ), Bayern Munich , or FC Bayern , is a German sports club based in Munich , Bavaria . It is best known for its professional football team, which plays in the Bundesliga , the top tier of the German football league system , and is the most successful club in German football history, having won a record 25 national titles and 17 national cups .  , FC Bayern was founded in 1900 by eleven football players led by Franz John .  Although Bayern won its first national championship in 1932 ,  the club was not selected for the Bundesliga at its inception in 1963 .  The club had its period of greatest success in the middle of the 1970s when, under the captaincy of Franz Beckenbauer , it won the European Cup three times in a row (1974–76). Overall, Bayern has reached ten European Cup/UEFA Champions League finals , most recently winning their fifth title in 2013 as part of a continental treble . Bayern has also won one UEFA Cup , one European Cup Winners' Cup , one UEFA Super Cup , one FIFA Club World Cup and two Intercontinental Cups , making it one of the most successful European clubs internationally . Since the formation of the Bundesliga, Bayern has been the dominant club in German football with 25 titles and has won 7 of the last 11 titles. They have traditional local rivalries with TSV 1860 München and 1. FC Nürnberg , as well as a contemporary rivalry with Borussia Dortmund . , Since the beginning of the 2005–06 season , Bayern has played its home games at the Allianz Arena . Previously the team had played at Munich's Olympiastadion for 33 years. The team colours are red and white, and the team crest shows the white and blue flag of Bavaria .  In terms of revenue , Bayern Munich is the biggest sports club in Germany and the third biggest football club in the world, generating €487.5 million for the 2013–2014 season.  Bayern is the second-biggest club in the world in membership terms, after Benfica ,  with over 251,000 members.  There are more than 3,800 officially-registered fan clubs with over 285,000 members.  The club has other departments for chess , handball , basketball, gymnastics, bowling , table tennis, referees , and senior football with more than 1,100 active members.  , FC Bayern is ranked third in the current UEFA club coefficient rankings  and second in IFFHS 's latest IFFHS Club World Ranking .  , , , FC Bayern Munich was founded by members of a Munich gymnastics club (MTV 1879). When a congregation of members of MTV 1879 decided on 27 February 1900 that the footballers of the club would not be allowed to join the German Football Association (DFB), eleven members of the football division left the congregation and on the same evening founded Fußball-Club Bayern München. Within a few months Bayern achieved high-scoring victories against all local rivals, including a 15–0 win against FC Nordstern,  and reached the semifinals of the 1900–01 South German championship .  In the following years the club won some local trophies and in 1910–11 Bayern joined the newly founded "Kreisliga", the first regional Bavarian league. They won this league in its first year, but did not win it again until the beginning of World War I in 1914, which halted all football activities in Germany.   , In the years after the war, Bayern won several regional competitions, before winning their first South German championship in 1926, an achievement repeated two years later.   Their first national title was gained in 1932 , when coach Richard "Little Dombi" Kohn led the team to the German championship by defeating Eintracht Frankfurt 2–0 in the final.  , The advent of Nazism put an abrupt end to Bayern's development. The president, Kurt Landauer and the coach, both of whom were Jewish, left the country. Many others in the club were also purged. Bayern was taunted as the "Jew's club", while local rival 1860 München gained much support. Josef Sauter, who was inaugurated 1943, was the only NSDAP member as president. As some Bayern players greeted Landauer, who was watching a friendly in Switzerland lead to continued discrimination.  Bayern was also affected by the ruling that football players had to be full amateurs again. In the following years Bayern could not sustain its role of contender for the national title, achieving mid-table results in its regional league instead.  , After the war, Bayern became a member of the Oberliga Süd , the southern conference of the German first division, which was split five ways at that time. Bayern struggled, hiring and firing 13 coaches between 1945 and 1963. Landauer returned from exile in 1947 and was once again appointed club president, the tenure lasted until 1951. He remains as the club's president with the longest accumulated tenure. Landauer has been deemed as inventor of Bayern as a professional club and his memory is e.g. being upheld by the Bayern ultras Schickeria .   In 1955 they were relegated, but returned to the Oberliga in the following season and won the DFB-Pokal for the first time, beating Fortuna Düsseldorf 1–0 in the final .   The club struggled financially though, verging on bankruptcy at the end of the 1950s. Manufacturer Roland Endler provided the necessary funds and was rewarded with four years at the helm of the club.  In 1963, the Oberligas in Germany were consolidated into one national league, the Bundesliga . Five teams from the Oberliga South were admitted. Bayern finished third in that year's southern division, but another Munich team, TSV 1860 München , had won the championship. As the DFB preferred not to include two teams from one city, Bayern was not chosen for the Bundesliga.  They gained promotion two years later, fielding a team with young talents like Franz Beckenbauer , Gerd Müller , and Sepp Maier — who would later be collectively referred to as the axis .  , In their first Bundesliga season , Bayern finished third and also won the DFB-Pokal . This qualified them for the following year's European Cup Winners' Cup , which they won in a dramatic final against Scottish club Rangers , when Franz Roth scored the decider in a 1–0 extra time victory.  In 1967, Bayern retained the DFB-Pokal , but slow overall progress saw Branko Zebec take over as coach. He replaced Bayern's offensive style of play with a more disciplined approach, and in doing so achieved the first league and cup double in Bundesliga history in 1969. Bayern Munich are one of four German clubs to win the Bundesliga and DFB-Pokal in the same season along with Borussia Dortmund , 1. FC Köln , and SV Werder Bremen . Zebec used only 13 players throughout the season .  , Udo Lattek took charge in 1970. After winning the DFB-Pokal in his first season , Lattek led Bayern to their third German championship . The deciding match in the 1971–72 season against Schalke 04 was the first match in the new Olympiastadion , and was also the first live televised match in Bundesliga history. Bayern beat Schalke 5–1 and thus claimed the title, also setting several records, including points gained and goals scored.  Bayern also won the next two championships, but the zenith was their triumph in the 1974 European Cup Final against Atlético Madrid , which Bayern won 4–0 after a replay.  This title – after winning the Cup Winners' trophy 1967 and two semi-finals ( 1968 and 1972 ) in that competition – marked the club's breakthrough as a force on the international stage. During the following years, the team was unsuccessful domestically but defended their European title by defeating Leeds United in the 1975 European Cup Final when Roth and Müller secured victory with late goals. "We came back into the game and scored two lucky goals, so in the end we were the winners but we were very, very lucky", stated Franz Beckenbauer. Billy Bremner believed the French referee was "very suspicious." Leeds fans then rioted in Paris and were banned from European Football for three years.  A year later in Glasgow , AS Saint-Étienne were defeated by another Roth goal and Bayern became the third club to win the trophy in three consecutive years. The final trophy won by Bayern in this era was the Intercontinental Cup , in which they defeated Brazilian club Cruzeiro over two legs.  The rest of the decade was a time of change and saw no further titles for Bayern. In 1977, Franz Beckenbauer left for New York Cosmos and, in 1979, Sepp Maier and Uli Hoeneß retired while Gerd Müller joined the Fort Lauderdale Strikers .  Bayerndusel was coined during this period as an expression of either contempt or envy about the sometimes narrow and last-minute wins against other teams. , The 1980s were a period of off-field turmoil for Bayern, with many changes in personnel and financial problems. On the field, Paul Breitner and Karl-Heinz Rummenigge , termed FC Breitnigge , led the team to Bundesliga titles in 1980 and 1981 . Apart from a DFB-Pokal win in 1982 , two relatively unsuccessful seasons followed, after which Breitner retired and former coach Udo Lattek returned. Bayern won the DFB-Pokal in 1984 and went on to win five Bundesliga championships in six seasons, including a double in 1986 . However, European success was elusive during the decade; Bayern managed to claim the runners-up spot in the European Cup in 1982 and 1987 .  , Jupp Heynckes was hired as coach in 1987, but after two consecutive championships in 1988–89 and 1989–90 Bayern's form dipped. After a second place in 1990–91 the club finished just five points above the relegation places in 1991–92 . In the season of 1993–94 , Bayern lost out in the UEFA Cup second round to the Premier League team Norwich City , who remain the only English football club to beat them at the Olympiastadion. Success returned when Franz Beckenbauer took over for the second half of the 1993–94 season, winning the championship again after a four-year gap. Beckenbauer was then appointed club president.  , His successors as coach, Giovanni Trapattoni and Otto Rehhagel , both finished trophyless after a season, not meeting the club's high expectations.  During this time Bayern's players frequently appeared in the gossip pages of the press rather than the sports pages, resulting in the nickname FC Hollywood .  Franz Beckenbauer briefly returned at the end of the 1995–96 season as caretaker coach and led his team to victory in the UEFA Cup , beating Bordeaux in the final . For the 1996–97 season, Trapattoni returned to win the championship . In the following season , Bayern lost the title to newly promoted Kaiserslautern and Trapattoni had to take his leave for the second time.  , After his success at Borussia Dortmund , Bayern were coached by Ottmar Hitzfeld from 1998 to 2004. In Hitzfeld's first season , Bayern won the Bundesliga and came close to winning the Champions League , losing 2–1 to Manchester United in injury time after leading for most of the match . The following year, in the club's centenary season , Bayern won the third league and cup double in its history. A third consecutive Bundesliga title followed in 2001 , won with a stoppage time goal on the final day of the league season.   Days later, Bayern won the Champions League for the fourth time after a 25-year gap, defeating Valencia CF on penalties . The 2001–02 season began with a win in the Intercontinental Cup , but ended trophyless otherwise. In 2002–03 , Bayern won their fourth double, leading the league by a record margin of 16 points.  Hitzfeld's reign ended in 2004, with Bayern underperforming, including defeat by second division Alemannia Aachen in the DFB-Pokal . , Felix Magath took over and led Bayern to two consecutive doubles . Prior to the start of the 2005–06 season, Bayern moved from the Olympiastadion to the new Allianz Arena , which the club shares with TSV 1860 München . On the field their performance in 2006–07 was erratic. Trailing in the league and having lost to Alemannia Aachen in the cup yet again, coach Magath was sacked shortly after the winter break.  , Hitzfeld returned as trainer in January 2007, but Bayern finished the 2006–07 season fourth, thus failing to qualify for the Champions League for the first time in more than a decade. Additional losses in the DFB-Pokal and the DFB-Ligapokal left the club with no honours for the season. , For the 2007–08 season, Bayern made drastic squad changes to help rebuild. They signed a total of eight new players and sold, released or loaned out nine of their players.  Among new signings were 2006 World Cup stars such as Franck Ribéry , Miroslav Klose and Luca Toni . Bayern went on to win the Bundesliga , being on top of the standings on every single week of play, and the DFB-Pokal against Borussia Dortmund .  , On 11 January 2008 Jürgen Klinsmann was named as Hitzfeld's successor, taking charge on 1 July 2008. He signed a two-year contract.  Bayern Munich lost the DFL-Supercup 1–2 against Borussia Dortmund in 2008. Bayer Leverkusen eliminated Bayern in quarter-finals of the DFB-Pokal . In the Champions League Bayern also reached the quarter-finals after winning Group F and defeating Sporting Clube de Portugal in the first knockout round, achieving a Champions League record aggregate of 12–1. On 27 April, two days after a home defeat against Schalke which saw Bayern drop to the third place in the table, Klinsmann was fired. Former trainer Jupp Heynckes was named as caretaker until the end of the season.  Bayern eventually finished second, thus qualifying directly for the Champions League in 2009–10. , Bayern then signed Dutch manager Louis van Gaal for the 2009–10 season . Multi-million signings of Arjen Robben and Mario Gómez also followed in a bid to return Bayern to the top of the European scene. On 8 May 2010, Bayern Munich won the 2009–10 Bundesliga after a 3–1 win at Hertha BSC .  Bayern then won the DFB-Pokal on 15 May 2010 to secure the domestic double.  Bayern also reached the 2010 UEFA Champions League Final but were beaten 2–0 by Internazionale , failing to become the first German club to complete the treble .  , In the 2010–11 season , Bayern were eliminated in the first round of the Champions League knockout phase by Internazionale on the away goals rule and finished third in the Bundesliga.  Van Gaal was fired by Bayern in April 2011. , In the 2011–12 season , Heynckes returned to coach Bayern for a second permanent spell but the team was to end the season without a trophy for the second season running. Domestically they finished second in the Bundesliga and lost the DFB-Pokal final 2–5, both times finishing runner-up to Borussia Dortmund . They also reached the final of the Champions League in their home stadium, but lost to Chelsea on penalties (3–4), in what was only their second defeat to an English team in Munich, and their first at the Allianz Arena.   , In the 2012–13 season , Bayern won the 2012 DFL-Supercup 2–1 against rivals Borussia Dortmund .  FC Bayern became the first team in history to win their first eight matches in the Bundesliga after their 5–0 away win to Fortuna Düsseldorf .   On 6 April 2013, Bayern won the 2012–13 Bundesliga after a 1–0 win at Eintracht Frankfurt with six games left, setting a new record for being the earliest ever Bundesliga winners.  Other Bundesliga records set by Bayern in the 2012–13 season include most points in a season (91), highest league winning points margin (25), most wins in a season (29) and fewest goals conceded in a season (18). Bayern also equaled the record for fewest defeats in a season, losing once to Bayer 04 Leverkusen . Bayern also reached the Champions League final for the third time in four seasons, winning the club's fifth European Cup with a 2–1 defeat of domestic rivals Borussia Dortmund at Wembley Stadium .  On 1 June 2013, Bayern beat VfB Stuttgart 3–2 in the 2013 DFB-Pokal Final to become the first German club in men's football to complete the treble ; Bayern had missed out on trebles in 1999 and 2010.  , On 1 July 2013, Pep Guardiola took over as manager ahead of the 2013–14 season .  Bayern also completed the signing of Mario Götze from Borussia Dortmund for € 37m, who became the most expensive German player in history (this was later surpassed by Mesut Özil 's transfer from Real Madrid to Arsenal for € 50m).  On 24 July 2013, it was reported that Bayern had become the first German club with over 200,000 members.   On 27 July 2013, Bayern Munich lost against rivals Borussia Dortmund 2–4 in the 2013 DFL-Supercup at Signal Iduna Park .  On 30 August 2013, Bayern won the UEFA Super Cup against Chelsea .  On 9 November 2013, Bayern set a new record for most successive Bundesliga matches without defeat, breaking Hamburger SV 's thirty-year-old record of 36 matches.  This record was eventually extended to 53 matches, before Bayern lost 1–0 to FC Augsburg in April 2014.  On 27 November 2013, Bayern became the first team to win ten consecutive Champions League matches with a 3–1 away victory over CSKA Moscow .  On 21 December 2013, Bayern beat Raja Casablanca 2–0 at the Stade de Marrakech to win the 2013 FIFA Club World Cup .  , After almost a year of investigations against Uli Hoeneß, Bayern's former player, former long time general manager, and president at the time, he was convicted of tax evasion on 13 March 2014. Hoeneß resigned as president the next day, and Karl Hopfner was elected president on 2 May. Just days after Hoeneß conviction, on 25 March, Bayern won their 24th Bundesliga title by beating Hertha BSC 3–1 at the Olympiastadion in Berlin . With seven matches remaining in the season, it was the earliest the championship had been won in Bundesliga history, breaking the record Bayern had set in the previous season.  At the end of the season Bayern beat Borussia Dortmund 2–0 in the 2014 DFB-Pokal Final to give the club the tenth league and cup double in its history.  , In the original club constitution, Bayern's colours were named as white and blue, but the club played in white shirts with black shorts until 1905, when Bayern joined MSC. MSC decreed that the footballers would have to play in red shorts. Also the younger players were called red-shorts, which was meant as an insult.  For most of the club's early history, Bayern had primarily worn white and maroon home kits. In 1968–69 season , Bayern changed to red and blue striped shirts, with blue shorts and socks. Between 1969 and 1973, the team wore a home strip of red and white striped shirts with either red or white shorts and red socks. In the 1973–74 season , the team switched to an all white kit featuring single vertical red and blue stripes on the shirt. From 1974 onwards, Bayern have mostly worn an all red home kit, with white trim. Bayern revived the red and blue striped colour scheme between 1995 and 1997. In 1997, blue was the dominant colour for the first time when Adidas released an all navy blue home kit with a red chest band. In 1999, Bayern returned to a predominantly red kit, which featured blue sleeves, and in 2000 the club released a traditional all red kit with white trim to be worn for Champions League matches.  Bayern also wore a Rotwein coloured home kits in Bundesliga matches between 2001 and 2003, and during the 2006–07 Champions League campaign, in reference to their first choice colours prior to the late 1960s.  , The club's away kit has had a wide range of colours over the years, including white, black, blue, and gold-green. Bayern also features a distinct international kit. During the 2013–14 season , Bayern have used an all red home kit with a Bavarian flag diamond watermark pattern, a Lederhosen inspired white and black Oktoberfest away kit, and an all navy blue international kit.  , In the 1980s and 1990s, Bayern used a special away kit when playing at 1. FC Kaiserslautern , representing the Brazilian colours blue and yellow, a superstition borne from the fact that the club found it hard to win there.  , Bayern's crest has changed several times. Originally it consisted of the stylised letters F, C, B, M, which were woven into one symbol. The original crest was blue. The colours of Bavaria were included for the first time in 1954.  , The modern version of the crest has changed from the 1954 version in several steps.  While the crest consisted of a single colour only for most of the time, namely blue or red, the current (2008) crest is blue, red, and white. It has the colours of Bavaria in its centre and FC Bayern München is written in white on a red ring enclosing the Bavarian colours. , Bayern played its first training games at the Schyrenplatz in the centre of Munich . The first official games were held on the Theresienwiese . In 1901, Bayern moved to a field of its own, located in Schwabing at the Clemensstraße. After joining the Münchner Sport-Club (MSC) in 1906, Bayern moved in May 1907 to MSC's ground at the Leopoldstraße.  As the crowds gathering for Bayern's home games increased at the beginning of the 1920s, Bayern had to switch to various other premises in Munich.  , From 1925, Bayern shared the Grünwalder Stadion with 1860 Munich .  Until World War II, the stadium was owned by 1860 Munich, and is still colloquially known as Sechz'ger ("Sixties") Stadium. It was destroyed during the war, and efforts to rebuild it resulted in a patchwork. Bayern's record crowd at the Grünwalder Stadion is reported as more than 50,000 in the home game against 1. FC Nürnberg in the 1961–62 season.  In the Bundesliga era the stadium had a maximum capacity of 44,000 which was reached on several occasions, but the capacity has since been reduced to 21,272. As was the case at most of this period's stadiums, the vast majority of the stadium was given over to terracing. Today the second teams of both clubs play in the stadium.   , For the 1972 Summer Olympics the city of Munich built the Olympiastadion . The stadium, renowned for its architecture,  was inaugurated in the last Bundesliga match of the 1971–72 season. The match drew a capacity crowd of 79,000, a total which was reached again on numerous occasions. The stadium was, in its early days, considered to be one of the foremost stadia in the world and played host to numerous major finals, such as that of 1974 FIFA World Cup .  In the following years the stadium underwent several modifications, such as an increase in seating space from approximately 50% to ca. 66% [ clarification needed ] . Eventually the stadium had a capacity of 63,000 for national matches, and 59,000 for international occasions such as European Cup competitions. Many people, however, began to feel that the stadium was too cold in winter, with half the audience exposed to the weather due to lack of cover. A further complaint was the distance between the spectators and the pitch, the stadium betraying its track and field heritage. Modification of the stadium proved impossible as the architect Günther Behnisch vetoed major modifications of the stadium.  , After much discussion, the city of Munich, the state of Bavaria , FC Bayern, and TSV 1860 jointly decided at the end of 2000 to build a new stadium. While Bayern had wanted a purpose-built football stadium for several years, the awarding of the 2006 FIFA World Cup to Germany stimulated the discussion as the Olympiastadion no longer met the FIFA criteria to host a World Cup game. Located on the northern outskirts of Munich, the Allianz Arena has been in use since the beginning of the 2005–06 season.  Its initial capacity of 66,000 fully covered seats has since been increased for matches on national level to 69,901 by transforming 3,000 seats to terracing in a 2:1 ratio.  Since August 2012, 2,000 more seats were added in the last row of the top tier increasing the capacity to 71,000.  In January 2015, a proposal to increase the capacity was approved by the city council so now Allianz Arena has a capacity of 75,000 (70,000 in Champions League).  , The most prominent feature of the stadium is the translucent outer layer, which can be illuminated in different colours for impressive effects. Usually, red lighting is used for Bayern home games, blue for TSV 1860 München games and white for German national team home games.  , In May 2012, Bayern opened a museum about its history, FC Bayern Erlebniswelt, inside the Allianz Arena.  , Bayern considers itself a national club.  The club has more than 187,000 members and 3,202 fanclubs, making it the club with the largest number of organised supporters in Germany.  Owing partly to the club having supporters all over the country,  all of Bayern's away games have been sold out in recent years.  Their following is mainly recruited from the aspiring middle class and regional Bavaria. [ citation needed ] Despite a large proportion of their supporters having to travel more than 200 km (ca. 120 miles) regularly,  the club's home matches in the Allianz Arena have almost always been sold out.   According to a study by Sport+Markt Bayern is the fifth-most popular football club in Europe with 20.7 million supporters, and the most popular football club in Germany with 10 million supporters.  , Bayern Munich is also renowned for its well-organised ultra scene. The most prominent groups are the Schickeria München , the Inferno Bavaria , the Red Munichs '89 , the Südkurve '73 , the Munichmaniacs 1996 , the Red Angels , and the Red Sharks . The ultras scene of Bayern Munch has been recognized for certain groups taking stance against right-wing extremism, racism and homophobia,    and in 2014 the group Schickeria München received the Julius Hirsch Award by the DFB for its commitment against antisemitism and discrimination.     , Stern des Südens is the song which fans sing at FCB home games. In the 1990s they also used to sing FC Bayern, Forever Number One .  , The club also has quite a number of high-profile supporters, among them Pope Benedict XVI ,  Boris Becker , retired German tennis player, Wladimir Klitschko , Ukrainian boxer, Horst Seehofer and Edmund Stoiber , former Minister-President of Bavaria, to name just a few.  , Bayern Munich has a rivalry with Borussia Dortmund .  Bayern and Dortmund have competed against each other for many Bundesliga titles. Bayern and Dortmund have played against each other in the DFB-Pokal final in 2008 , 2012 , and 2014 . The 2–5 loss against Dortmund in the 2012 DFB-Pokal final was Bayern's worst ever loss in a final. Bayern and Dortmund have also played against each other in the DFL-Supercup in 1989 , 2008, 2012 , 2013 and 2014 . The height of the rivalry was when Bayern defeated Dortmund, 2–1 in the final of the 2013 UEFA Champions League . , Bayern is one of three professional football clubs in Munich . Bayern's main local rival is TSV 1860 München , who were the more successful club in the 1960s, winning a cup and a championship. In the 1970s and 1980s, TSV 1860 moved between the first and the third division, but lately have settled in the second division . The Munich derby is still a much anticipated event, getting a lot of extra attention from supporters of both clubs.  1860 is considered more working-class, and therefore suffers from a diminishing fan base in a city where the manufacturing sector is declining. [ citation needed ] Bayern is considered the establishment club,  which is reflected by many board members being business leaders [ dubious – discuss ] and including the former Bavarian minister president, Edmund Stoiber . Despite the rivalry, Bayern has repeatedly supported 1860 in times of financial disarray.  , Since the 1920s, 1. FC Nürnberg has been Bayern's main and traditional  rival in Bavaria. Philipp Lahm said that playing Nürnberg is "always special" and is a "heated atmosphere".  Both clubs played in the same league in the mid-1920s, but in the 1920s and 1930s, Nürnberg was far more successful, winning five championships in the 1920s, making the club Germany's record champion. Bayern took over the title more than sixty years later, when they won their tenth championship in 1987 , thereby surpassing the number of championships won by Nürnberg.   The duel between Bayern and Nürnberg is often referred to as the Bavarian Derby . , Bayern also enjoys a strong rivalry with the 1. FC Kaiserslautern , originating in parts from a game in 1973, when Bayern lost 7–4 after leading 4–1,   but also from the two clubs competing for German championship honours at various times in the Bundesliga as well as the city of Kaiserslautern together with the surrounding Palatinate having been part of Bavaria until a plebiscite after the end of the Second World War. , Since the 1970s, Bayern's main rivals have been the clubs who put up the strongest fight against its national dominance. In the 1970s this was Borussia Mönchengladbach ,  in the 1980s the category expanded to include Hamburger SV . In the 1990s, Borussia Dortmund , Werder Bremen , and Bayer Leverkusen   emerged as the most ardent opponents. Recently Borussia Dortmund , Schalke ,  and Werder Bremen have been the main challengers in the Bundesliga. , Amongst Bayern's chief European rivals are Real Madrid ,  A.C. Milan ,  and Manchester United due to many classic wins, draws and losses.  Real Madrid versus Bayern is the match that has historically been played most often in the Champions League with 14 matches and the European Cup with 19 matches. Real's biggest loss at home in the Champions League came at the hands of Bayern on 29 February 2000 (2–4).  Due to Bayern being traditionally hard to beat for Madrid, Madrid supporters often refer to Bayern as the " Bestia negra " ("Black Beast"). Despite the number of duels, Bayern and Real have never met in the final of a Champions League or European Cup. The two teams met in the 2011–12 Champions League semi-finals which resulted in 3–3 on aggregate, forcing extra time and penalties. Bayern won 3–1 on penalties to reach their first ever home Champions League final. They then again met in 2013–14 UEFA Champions League semi-finals , a rematch of the 2012 semi-final, with Real Madrid winning 5–0 on aggregate. , Bayern is led mostly by former club players. The club presidency is currently vacant after the resignation of Uli Hoeneß who had been President from 1979 to 2014; Hoeneß resigned after being convicted of tax fraud.  Karl-Heinz Rummenigge is the chairman of the executive board of the AG.  The supervisory board of nine consists mostly of managers of big German corporations. They are Herbert Hainer (CEO adidas), Uli Hoeneß, Timotheus Höttges, Helmut Markwort , Dieter Rampl, Fritz Scherer, Rupert Stadler , Edmund Stoiber , and Martin Winterkorn .   , Professional football at Bayern is run by the spin-off organization FC Bayern München AG . AG is short for Aktiengesellschaft , and Bayern is run like a joint stock company , a company whose stock are not listed on the public stock exchange, but is privately owned. 81.8% of FC Bayern München AG is owned by the club, the FC Bayern München e. V. ( e. V. is short for Eingetragener Verein , which translates into "Registered Club") and 9.1% by sports goods manufacturer Adidas and 9.1% by automobile company Audi .  Adidas acquired its shares in 2002 for €77m. The money was designated to help finance the Allianz Arena .  In 2009 Audi paid €90m for their share. The capital will be used to repay the loan for the Allianz Arena quicker than originally planned.  Bayern's other sports departments are run by the club. , Bayern's main advertising partner and current holder of the jersey rights is Deutsche Telekom .  The main supplier of the club is Adidas .  The premium partners include Audi , HypoVereinsbank , Imtech , Lufthansa , MAN , Paulaner Brewery , Samsung , DHL and Yingli Solar . Classic sponsors include Coca-Cola , Siemens , Hublot , Henkel, Flyeralarm, Nestle Schoeller, Adelholzener,  Fitness First , Schaeffler Group , s.Oliver , Viagogo , Trentino , Thomas Sabo and Starwood Hotels and Resorts . Food sponsors include Albi, BiFi , Ehrmann and MF.  In previous years the jersey rights were held by Adidas  (1974–78), Magirus Deutz and Iveco  (trucks / 1978–84), Commodore  (computers / 1984–89) and Opel  (cars / 1989–2002). , Bayern is an exception in professional, international football, having generated profits in nine of the last ten seasons. Other clubs often report losses, realizing transfers via loans, whereas Bayern always uses current assets . Also Bayern differs from other European top clubs in their income composition. While other clubs derive more than 35% of their revenues from broadcasting right, Bayern earn only 22% of their revenues that way.  This is often accounted for by Bayern not marketing their broadcasting right themselves. [ citation needed ] Instead the Deutsche Fußball Liga negotiates broadcasting rights for the whole Bundesliga. , In 2011–12, Bayern reported revenues of €373.4 million, marking the eighth consecutive time that Bayern has topped their previous record earnings.  According to the 2013 edition of Deloitte 's annual Football Money League , Bayern was the fourth richest club in the world in 2012, generating revenues of €368.4 million.  , While other European clubs have mainly marketed to international audiences, Bayern has focused on Germany.  Forbes ranks Bayern as the world's fifth most valuable football club in their annual list , estimating the club's at value $1.235 billion.  As a result of Bayern's finals appearance in the 2012 UEFA Champions League, the club's brand value has reached $786 million USD which is up 59 percent from the previous year. Among European teams this is ahead of Real Madrid 's $600 million USD and behind first place Manchester United whose brand is valued at $853 million USD. In 2013, Bayern overtook Manchester United to take first place in brand valuation.  , Bayern has been involved with charitable ventures for a long time, helping other football clubs in financial disarray as well as ordinary people in misery. In the wake of the 2004 Tsunami the "FC Bayern – Hilfe e.V." was founded, a foundation that aims to concentrate the social engagements of the club.  At its inception this venture was funded with €600,000, raised by officials and players of the club.  The money was amongst other things used to build a school in Marathenkerny, Sri Lanka  and to rebuild the area of Trincomalee , Sri Lanka. In April 2007 it was decided that the focus of the foundation would shift towards supporting people in need locally.  , The club has also time and again shown to have a soft spot for clubs in financial disarray. Repeatedly the club has supported its local rival 1860 Munich with gratuitous friendlies, transfers at favourable rates, and direct money transfers.  Also when St. Pauli threatened to lose its license for professional football due to financial problems, Bayern met the club for a friendly game free of any charge, giving all revenues to St. Pauli.  More recently when Mark van Bommel 's home club Fortuna Sittard was in financial distress Bayern came to a charity game at the Dutch club.  Another well known example was the transfer of Alexander Zickler in 1993 from Dynamo Dresden . When Bayern picked up Zickler for 2.3 Million DM many considered the sum to be a subvention for the financially threatened Dresdeners .  In 2003, Bayern provided a 2 Million Euro loan without collateral to the nearly bankrupt Borussia Dortmund which has since been repaid.    On 14 July 2013, Bayern played a charity game against financially threatened third division Hansa Rostock. The game raised about €1 million, securing Hansa's licence.  , In the summer of 2013 Bayern was the first club to give financial support to the Magnus Hirschfeld National Foundation . The foundation researches the living environment LGBT people, and developed an eductation concept to facilitate unbiased dealing with LGBT themes in football.  , FC Bayern Munich training facilities, for both the professional and the Junior Team , are located at the Bayern Munich Headquarters.   There are four grass pitches, one of which has undersoil heating, one artificial grass field and a multi-functional sports hall.  After the closure of Munich American High School, FC Bayern purchased the DoDDS adjacent sporting fields that previously held MAHS's football pitch and baseball field. A new grass pitch was placed over the existing football pitch while an artificial turf field was placed over the baseball diamond. [ citation needed ] , The players' quarters opened in 1990 and were reconstructed after the 2007–08 season on suggestions by the new coach, Jürgen Klinsmann , who took inspiration from various major sports clubs. The quarters are now called the performance centre and feature a weights and fitness area, a massage unit, dressing rooms, the coaches' office, and a conference room with screening facilities for video analysis. A café, a library, an e-Learning room, and a family room are also included.  , Located at the headquarters is also the Youth academy, which houses up to 13 young talents from outside the city. While being part of Bayern's Junior Team they can work there on their development as footballers. Former residents of the Youth House include Owen Hargreaves , Michael Rensing , and Bastian Schweinsteiger .  , Bayern is historically the most successful team in German football, as they have won the most championships and the most cups . They are also Germany's most successful team in international competitions, having won eleven trophies. Bayern is one of only four clubs to have won all three major European competitions and also the last club to have won the European Cup three times in a row, entitling them to wear a multiple-winner badge during Champions League matches. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , , At his farewell game, Oliver Kahn was declared honorary captain of Bayern Munich.  The players below are part of the FC Bayern Munich Hall of Fame .  , 1930s , 1970s: , 1980s: , 1990s: , 2000s: , Philipp Lahm has been the captain since 2011. Bastian Schweinsteiger is the vice-captain. , 12 – Club Supporters (the 12th Man) , See also: Category:FC Bayern Munich managers and List of FC Bayern Munich records and statistics#Coaches , As of 17 April 2015 [update]  , Bayern had 17 coaches since its promotion to the Bundesliga in 1965. Udo Lattek , Giovanni Trapattoni , Ottmar Hitzfeld and Jupp Heynckes served two terms as head coach. Franz Beckenbauer served one term as head coach and one as caretaker.  Lattek was the club's most successful coach, having won six Bundeslige titles, two DFB Cups and the European Cup; following closely is Ottmar Hitzfeld, who won five Bundeslige titles, two DFB cups and the Champions League. The club's least successful coach was Søren Lerby , who won less than a third of his matches in charge and presided over the club's near-relegation in the 1991–92 campaign. , The present manager, since July 2013, is Josep Guardiola , Barcelona's former coach. , * Served as caretaker coach. , For a list of former presidents see List of FC Bayern Munich records and statistics#Presidents , The season-by-season performance of the club over the last ten years:   , As of 16 February 2015 [update] : , The reserve team serves mainly as the final stepping stone for promising young players before being promoted to the main team. Bayern II is coached by Erik ten Hag , assisted by Gerd Müller and Rainer Ulrich .  Since the inception of the Regionalliga in 1994, the team played in the Regionalliga Süd , after playing in the Oberliga since 1978. In the 2007–08 season they qualified for the newly founded 3rd Liga , where they lasted until 2011, when they were relegated to the Regionalliga. This ended 33 consecutive years of playing in the highest league that the German Football Association permits the second team of a professional football team to play.  , The Bayern Munich Junior Team has produced some of Europe's top football players, including Owen Hargreaves , Thomas Hitzlsperger , Philipp Lahm , Thomas Müller and Bastian Schweinsteiger . The division was founded in 1902 and is run by Werner Kern and Björn Andersson . It consists of eleven teams with more than 170 players, the youngest being under ten.  , The women's football team which is led by head coach Thomas Wörle features several members of the German national youth team. In the 2008–09 season the team finished second in the women's Bundesliga . The division was founded in 1970 and consists of four teams with 90 players. Their greatest success was winning the championship in 1976.  , Bayern has other departments  for: , since 1984 with 46 players in 4 teams , since 1908 with 97 players in 8 teams  , European Club Cup 1992 , German champion 1983, 1985, 1986, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 and 1995 , German Fast chess champion 1984, 1985, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 (record) , since 1974 with 35 gymnasts in 1 team , German champion 1983, 1986, 1987 and 1988 , since 1945 with 3000 players in 10 teams , since 1946 with 160 players in 12 teams , since 1919 with 115 referees , since 2001 with 135 players in 5 teams , Coordinates : 48°6′6.64″N 11°34′22.00″E ﻿ / ﻿ 48.1018444°N 11.5727778°E ﻿ / 48.1018444; 11.5727778  Futbol Club Barcelona ( Catalan pronunciation:  [fubˈbɔɫ ˈkɫub bərsəˈɫonə]  ( listen ) ), also known as Barcelona and familiarly as Barça , [ note 1 ] is a professional football club , based in Barcelona , Catalonia, Spain. , Founded in 1899 by a group of Swiss, English and Catalan footballers led by Joan Gamper , the club has become a symbol of Catalan culture and Catalanism , hence the motto "Més que un club" (More than a club). Unlike many other football clubs, the supporters own and operate Barcelona. It is the second most valuable sports team in the world , worth $3.2 billion, and the world's fourth richest football club in terms of revenue, with an annual turnover of €484.6 million.   The official Barcelona anthem is the " Cant del Barça ", written by Jaume Picas and Josep Maria Espinàs .  , Domestically, Barcelona has won 23 La Liga , 27 Copa del Rey , 11 Supercopa de España , 3 Copa Eva Duarte and 2 Copa de la Liga trophies, as well as being the record holder for the latter four competitions. In international club football , Barcelona has won five UEFA Champions League , a record four UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , four UEFA Super Cup , a record three Inter-Cities Fairs Cup and a shared record two FIFA Club World Cup trophies.  Barcelona was ranked first in the IFFHS Club World Ranking for 1997, 2009, 2011 and 2012  and currently occupies the second position on the UEFA club rankings .  The club has a long-standing rivalry with Real Madrid ; matches between the two teams are referred to as El Clásico . , Barcelona is one of the most supported teams in the world, and has the largest social media following in the world among sports teams.    Barcelona's players have won a record number of Ballon d'Or awards (10), as well as a record number of FIFA World Player of the Year awards (7). In 2010, the club created history when three players who came through its youth academy ( Messi , Iniesta & Xavi ) were chosen as the three best players in the world in the FIFA Ballon d'Or awards, an unprecedented feat for players from the same football school. , Barcelona was one of the founding members of La Liga, and is one of three clubs which have never been relegated from the top division, along with Athletic Bilbao and Real Madrid. In 2009, Barcelona became the first Spanish club to win the continental treble consisting of La Liga , Copa del Rey , and the UEFA Champions League , and also became the first football club to win six out of six competitions in a single year, completing the sextuple in also winning the Spanish Super Cup , UEFA Super Cup and FIFA Club World Cup .  In 2011, the club became European champions again and won five trophies. This Barcelona team, which reached a record six consecutive Champions League semi-finals and won 14 trophies in just four years under Pep Guardiola , is considered by some in the sport to be the greatest team of all time.    In June 2015, Barcelona became the first European club in history to achieve the continental treble twice. , , , On 22 October 1899, Hans Gamper placed an advertisement in Los Deportes declaring his wish to form a football club; a positive response resulted in a meeting at the Gimnasio Solé on 29 November. Eleven players attended— Walter Wild (the first director of the club), Lluís d'Ossó, Bartomeu Terradas , Otto Kunzle, Otto Maier, Enric Ducal, Pere Cabot, Carles Pujol, Josep Llobet, John Parsons, and William Parsons—and Foot-Ball Club Barcelona was born.  , FC Barcelona had a successful start in regional and national cups, competing in the Campionat de Catalunya and the Copa del Rey . In 1902, the club won its first trophy, the Copa Macaya , and participated in the first Copa del Rey, losing 1–2 to Bizcaya in the final.  Kamper—now known as Joan Gamper—became club president in 1908, finding the club in financial difficulty after not winning a competition since the Campionat de Catalunya in 1905. Club president on five separate occasions between 1908 and 1925, he spent 25 years in total at the helm. One of his main achievements was ensuring Barça acquire its own stadium and thus generate a stable income.  , On 14 March 1909 the team moved into the Camp de la Indústria , a stadium with a capacity of 8,000. To celebrate their new surroundings, the club conducted a logo contest the following year. Carles Comamala won the contest, and his suggestion became the crest that the club still wears - with some minor changes - as of 2012 [update] .  , With the new stadium, Barcelona participated in the inaugural version of the Pyrenees Cup , which, at the time, consisted of the best teams of Languedoc , Midi and Aquitaine (Southern France), the Basque Country and Catalonia; all were former members of the Marca Hispanica region. The contest was the most prestigious in that era.  From the inaugural year in 1910 to 1913, Barcelona won the competition four consecutive times. Carles Comamala played an integral part of the four-time champion, managing the side along with Amechazurra and Jack Greenwell . The latter became the club's first full-time coach in 1917.  The last edition was held in 1914 in the city of Barcelona, which local rivals Espanyol won.  , During the same period, the club changed its official language from Castilian to Catalan and gradually evolved into an important symbol of Catalan identity. For many fans, participating in the club had less to do with the game itself and more with being a part of the club's collective identity.  On 4 February 1917, the club held its first testimonial match to honour Ramón Torralba , who played from 1913 to 1928. The match was against local side Terrassa: Barcelona won 6–2.  , Gamper simultaneously launched a campaign to recruit more club members, and by 1922, the club had more than 20,000, who helped finance a new stadium. The club then moved to the new Les Cortes , which they inaugurated the same year.  Les Cortes had an initial capacity of 30,000, and in the 1940s it was expanded to 60,000.  , Gamper recruited Jack Greenwell as the first full-time manager in Barcelona's history. After this hiring, the club's fortunes began to improve on the field. During the Gamper-led era, Barcelona won eleven Campeonato de Cataluña , six Copa del Rey and four Pyrenees Cups and enjoyed its first "golden age".   , On 14 June 1925, in a spontaneous reaction against Primo de Rivera 's dictatorship, the crowd in the stadium jeered the Royal March . As a reprisal, the ground was closed for six months and Gamper was forced to relinquish the presidency of the club.  This coincided with the transition to professional football, and, in 1926, the directors of Barcelona publicly claimed, for the first time, to operate a professional football club.  On 3 July 1927, the club held a second testimonial match for Paulino Alcántara , against the Spanish national team . To kick off the match, local journalist and pilot Josep Canudas dropped the ball onto the pitch from his airplane.  In 1928, victory in the Spanish Cup was celebrated with a poem titled "Oda a Platko ", which was written by a member of the Generation of '27 , Rafael Alberti , inspired by the heroic performance of the Barcelona goalkeeper , Franz Platko.  Two years after the victory, on 30 July 1930, Gamper committed suicide after a period of depression brought on by personal and financial problems.  , Although they continued to have players of the standing of Josep Escolà , the club now entered a period of decline, in which political conflict overshadowed sports throughout society. Attendance at matches dropped as the citizens of Barcelona were occupied with discussing political matters.  Although the team won the Campionat de Catalunya in 1930, 1931, 1932, 1934, 1936 and 1938,  success at a national level (with the exception of the 1937 disputed title ) evaded them. , A month after the Spanish Civil War began in 1936, several players from Barcelona enlisted in the ranks of those who fought against the military uprising, along with players from Athletic Bilbao.  On 6 August, Falangist soldiers near Guadarrama murdered club president Josep Sunyol , a representative of the pro-independence political party.  He was dubbed the martyr of barcelonisme , and his murder was a defining moment in the history of FC Barcelona and Catalan identity.  In the summer of 1937, the squad was on tour in Mexico and the United States, where it was received as an ambassador of the Second Spanish Republic . The tour led to the financial security of the club, but also resulted in half of the team seeking asylum in Mexico and France, making it harder for the remaining team to contest for trophies.   , On 16 March 1938, Barcelona came under aerial bombardment from the Italian Air Force , causing more than 3,000 deaths, with one of the bombs hitting the club's offices.   A few months later, Catalonia came under occupation and as a symbol of the "undisciplined" Catalanism , the club, now down to just 3,486 members, faced a number of restrictions. All signs of regional nationalism, including language, flag and other signs of separatism were banned throughout Spain. The Catalan flag was banned and the club were prohibited from using non-Spanish names. These measures forced the club to change its name to Club de Fútbol Barcelona and to remove the Catalan flag from its crest.  , In 1943, Barcelona faced rivals Real Madrid in the semi-finals of Copa del Generalísimo (now the Copa del Rey). The first match at Les Corts was won by Barcelona 3–0. Real Madrid comfortably won the second leg, beating Barcelona 11–1.  According to football writer Sid Lowe , "There have been relatively few mentions of the game [since] and it is not a result that has been particularly celebrated in Madrid. Indeed, the 11–1 occupies a far more prominent place in Barcelona's history."  It has been alleged by local journalist Paco Aguilar that Barcelona's players were threatened by police in the changing room, though nothing was ever proven.  , Despite the difficult political situation, CF Barcelona enjoyed considerable success during the 1940s and 1950s. In 1945, with Josep Samitier as coach and players like César , Ramallets and Velasco , they won La Liga for the first time since 1929. They added two more titles in 1948 and 1949.  In 1949, they also won the first Copa Latina .  In June 1950, Barcelona signed László Kubala , who was to be an important figure at the club.  , On a rainy Sunday of 1951, the crowd left Les Corts stadium after a 2–1 win against Santander by foot, refusing to catch any trams, and surprising the Francoist authorities. The reason was simple: at the same time, a tram strike was taking place in Barcelona , receiving the support of blaugrana fans . Events like this made CF Barcelona represent much more than just Catalonia and many progressive Spaniards saw the club as a staunch defender of rights and freedoms .   , Coach Ferdinand Daučík and László Kubala led the team to five different trophies including La Liga, the Copa del Generalísimo, the Copa Latina , the Copa Eva Duarte , and the Copa Martini Rossi in 1952. In 1953, the club won La Liga and the Copa del Generalísimo again.  , With Helenio Herrera as coach, a young Luis Suárez , the European Footballer of the Year in 1960, and two influential Hungarians recommended by Kubala, Sándor Kocsis and Zoltán Czibor , the team won another national double in 1959 and a La Liga and Fairs Cup double in 1960. In 1961, they became the first club to beat Real Madrid in a European Cup play-off. However, they lost 2–3 to Benfica in the final.    , The 1960s were less successful for the club, with Real Madrid monopolising La Liga. The completion of the Camp Nou , finished in 1957, meant the club had little money to spend on new players.  The 1960s saw the emergence of Josep Maria Fusté and Carles Rexach , and the club won the Copa del Generalísimo in 1963 and the Fairs Cup in 1966. Barcelona restored some pride by beating Real Madrid 1–0 in the 1968 Copa del Generalísimo final at the Bernabéu in front of Franco , with coach Salvador Artigas , a former republican pilot in the civil war. With the end of Franco's dictatorship in 1974, the club changed its official name back to Futbol Club Barcelona and reverted the crest to its original design, including the original letters once again.   , The 1973–74 season saw the arrival of Johan Cruyff , who was bought for a world record £920,000 from Ajax .  Already an established player with Ajax, Cruyff quickly won over the Barcelona fans when he told the European press that he chose Barcelona over Real Madrid because he could not play for a club associated with Francisco Franco . He further endeared himself when he named his son Jordi , after the local Catalan Saint George .  Next to champions like Juan Manuel Asensi , Carles Rexach and Hugo Sotil , he helped the club win the 1973–74 season for the first time since 1960,  defeating Real Madrid 5–0 at the Bernabéu along the way. He was crowned European Footballer of the Year in 1973 during his first season with Barcelona (his second Ballon d'Or win; he won his first while playing for Ajax in 1971). Cruyff received this prestigious award a third time (the first player to do so) in 1974, while he was still with Barcelona.  , , In 1978, Josep Lluís Núñez became the first elected president of FC Barcelona, and, since then, the members of Barcelona have elected the club president. The process of electing a president of FC Barcelona was closely tied to Spain's transition to democracy in 1974 and the end of Franco's dictatorship. The new president's main objective was to develop Barcelona into a world-class club by giving it stability both on and off the pitch. His presidency was to last for 22 years, and it deeply affected the image of Barcelona, as Núñez held to a strict policy regarding wages and discipline, letting go of such players as Maradona , Romário and Ronaldo rather than meeting their demands.   , On 16 May 1979, the club won its first Cup Winners Cup by beating Fortuna Düsseldorf 4–3 in Basel in a final watched by more than 30,000 travelling blaugrana fans. The same year, Núñez began to invest in the club's youth program by converting La Masia to a dormitory for young academy players from abroad. The name of the dormitory would later become synonymous with the youth program of Barcelona.  , In June 1982, Diego Maradona was signed for a world record fee of £5 million from Boca Juniors .  In the following season, under coach Luis , Barcelona won the Copa del Rey , beating Real Madrid. However, Maradona's time with Barcelona was short-lived and he soon left for Napoli . At the start of the 1984–85 season, Terry Venables was hired as manager and he won La Liga with noteworthy displays by German midfielder Bernd Schuster . The next season, he took the team to their second European Cup final, only to lose on penalties to Steaua Bucureşti during a dramatic evening in Seville.  , Around this time, tensions began to arise between what was perceived as president Núñez's dictatorial rule and the nationalistic support group, Boixos Nois . The group, identified with a left-wing separatism, repeatedly demanded the resignation of Núñez and openly defied him through chants and banners at matches. At the same time, Barcelona experienced an eruption in skinheads , who often identified with a right-wing separatism. The skinheads slowly transferred the Boixos Nois' ideology from liberalism to fascism, which caused division within the group and a sudden support for Núñez's presidency.  Inspired by British hooligans, the remaining Boixos Nois became violent, causing havoc leading to large-scale arrests.  , After the 1986 FIFA World Cup , Barcelona signed the English top-scorer Gary Lineker , along with goalkeeper Andoni Zubizarreta , but the team could not achieve success, as Schuster was excluded from the team. Terry Venables was subsequently fired at the beginning of the 1987–88 season and replaced with Luis Aragonés . The season finished with the players rebelling against president Núñez, in an event known as the Hesperia mutiny, and a 1–0 victory at the Copa del Rey final against Real Sociedad .  , In 1988, Johan Cruyff returned to the club as manager and he assembled the so-called Dream Team .  He used a mix of Spanish players like Josep Guardiola , José Mari Bakero and Txiki Begiristain while signing international players such as Ronald Koeman , Michael Laudrup , Romário and Hristo Stoichkov .  , It was ten years after the inception of the youth program, La Masia, when the young players began to graduate and play for their first team. One of the first graduates, who would later earn international acclaim, was previous Barcelona coach Josep Guardiola.  Under Cruyff's guidance, Barcelona won four consecutive La Liga titles from 1991 to 1994. They beat Sampdoria in both the 1989 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup final and the 1992 European Cup final at Wembley , with a free kick goal from Dutch international Ronald Koeman. They also won a Copa del Rey in 1990, the European Super Cup in 1992 and three Supercopa de España trophies. With 11 trophies, Cruyff became the club's most successful manager to date. He also became the club's longest consecutive serving manager, serving eight years.  Cruyff's fortune was to change, and, in his final two seasons, he failed to win any trophies and fell out with president Núñez , resulting in his departure.  , Reacting to Cruyff's departure, an independent protest group was organised by Armand Caraben, Joan Laporta and Alfons Godall.  The objective of the group, called L'Elefant Blau , was to oppose the presidency of Núñez, which they regarded as a corruption of the club's traditional values.   Laporta would later take over the presidency of Barcelona in 2003.  , Cruyff was briefly replaced by Bobby Robson , who took charge of the club for a single season in 1996–97. He recruited Ronaldo from his previous club, PSV and delivered a cup treble , winning the Copa del Rey, UEFA Cup Winners Cup and the Supercopa de España . Despite his success, Robson was only ever seen as a short-term solution, while the club waited for Louis van Gaal to become available.  , Like Maradona, Ronaldo only stayed a short time before he left for Internazionale . However, new heroes emerged, such as Luís Figo , Patrick Kluivert , Luis Enrique and Rivaldo , and the team won a Copa del Rey and La Liga double in 1998. In 1999, the club celebrated its centenari , winning the Primera División title, and Rivaldo became the fourth Barcelona player to be awarded European Footballer of the Year . Despite this domestic success, the failure to emulate Real Madrid in the Champions League led to van Gaal and Núñez resigning in 2000.  , The departures of Núñez and van Gaal were hardly noticed by the fans when compared to that of Luís Figo, then club vice-captain. Figo had become a cult hero, and was considered by Catalans to be one of their own. However, Barcelona fans were distraught by Figo's decision to join arch-rivals Real Madrid, and, during subsequent visits to the Camp Nou , Figo was given an extremely hostile reception. Upon his first return, a piglet's head and a full bottle of whiskey were thrown at him from the crowd.  The next three years saw the club in decline, and managers came and went. van Gaal was replaced by Llorenç Serra Ferrer who, despite an extensive investment in players in the summer of 2000, presided over a mediocre league campaign and a humiliating first-round Champions League exit, and was eventually dismissed late in the season. Long-serving coach Carles Rexach was appointed as his replacement, initially on a temporary basis, and managed to at least steer the club to the last Champions League spot on the final day of the season. Despite better form in La Liga and a good run to the semi-finals of the Champions League, Rexach was never viewed as a long-term solution and that summer Louis van Gaal returned to the club for a second spell as manager. What followed, despite another decent Champions League performance, was one of the worst La Liga campaigns in the club's history, with the team as low as 15th in February 2003. This led to van Gaal's resignation and replacement for the rest of the campaign by Radomir Antić , though a sixth-place finish was the best that he could manage. At the end of the season, Antić's short-term contract was not renewed, and club president Joan Gaspart resigned, his position having been made completely untenable by such a disastrous season on top of the club's overall decline in fortunes since he became president three years prior.  , , After the disappointment of the Gaspart era, the combination of a new young president, Joan Laporta , and a young new manager, former Dutch and Milan star Frank Rijkaard , saw the club bounce back. On the field, an influx of international players, including Ronaldinho , Deco , Henrik Larsson , Ludovic Giuly , Samuel Eto'o , and Rafael Márquez , combined with home grown Spanish players, such as Carles Puyol , Andrés Iniesta , Xavi and Víctor Valdés , led to the club's return to success. Barcelona won La Liga and the Supercopa de España in 2004–05, and Ronaldinho and Eto'o were voted first and third, respectively, in the FIFA World Player of the Year awards.  , In the 2005–06 season, Barcelona repeated their league and Supercup successes. The pinnacle of the league season arrived at the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium in a 3–0 win over Real Madrid. It was Frank Rijkaard's second victory at the Bernabéu, making him the first Barcelona manager to win there twice. Ronaldinho's performance was so impressive that after his second goal, which was Barcelona's third, some Real Madrid fans gave him a standing ovation.  In the Champions League, Barcelona beat the English club Arsenal 2–1 in the final. Trailing 1–0 to a 10-man Arsenal and with less than 15 minutes remaining, they came back to win 2–1, with substitute Henrik Larsson, in his final appearance for the club, setting up goals for Samuel Eto'o and fellow substitute Juliano Belletti , for the club's first European Cup victory in 14 years.  , Despite being the favourites and starting strongly, Barcelona finished the 2006–07 season without trophies. A pre-season US tour was later blamed for a string of injuries to key players, including leading scorer Eto'o and rising star Lionel Messi . There was open feuding as Eto'o publicly criticized coach Frank Rijkaard and Ronaldinho.  Ronaldinho also admitted that a lack of fitness affected his form.  In La Liga, Barcelona were in first place for much of the season, but inconsistency in the New Year saw Real Madrid overtake them to become champions. Barcelona advanced to the semi-finals of the Copa del Rey , winning the first leg against Getafe 5–2, with a goal from Messi bringing comparison to Diego Maradona 's goal of the century, but then lost the second leg 4–0. They took part in the 2006 FIFA Club World Cup , but were beaten by a late goal in the final against Brazilian side Internacional .  In the Champions League , Barcelona were knocked out of the competition in the last 16 by eventual runners-up Liverpool on away goals . , Barcelona finished the 2007–08 season third in La Liga and reached the semi-finals of the UEFA Champions League and Copa del Rey , both times losing to the eventual champions, Manchester United and Valencia , respectively. The day after a 4–1 defeat to Real Madrid, Joan Laporta announced that Barcelona B coach Josep Guardiola would take over Frank Rijkaard's duties on 30 June 2008.  , , FC Barcelona B youth manager Pep Guardiola took over Frank Rijkaard's duties at the conclusion of the season.  Guardiola brought with him the now famous tiki-taka style of play he had been taught during his time in the Barcelona youth teams. In the process Guardiola sold Ronaldinho and Deco, and started building the Barcelona team around Xavi , Iniesta and Messi. , Barça beat Athletic Bilbao 4–1 in the 2009 Copa del Rey Final , winning the competition for a record-breaking 25th time. A historic 2–6 victory against Real Madrid followed three days later and ensured that Barcelona became La Liga champions for the 2008–09 season. Barça finished the season by beating the previous year's Champions League winners Manchester United 2–0 at the Stadio Olimpico in Rome to win their third Champions League title and completed the first ever treble won by a Spanish team.    The team went on to win the 2009 Supercopa de España against Athletic Bilbao  and the 2009 UEFA Super Cup against Shakhtar Donetsk ,  becoming the first European club to win both domestic and European Super Cups following a treble. In December 2009, Barcelona won the 2009 FIFA Club World Cup ,  and became the first football club ever to accomplish the sextuple .  Barcelona accomplished two new records in Spanish football in 2010 as they retained the La Liga trophy with 99 points and won the Spanish Super Cup trophy for a ninth time.   , , After Laporta's departure from the club in June 2010, Sandro Rosell was soon elected as the new president. The elections were held on 13 June, where he got 61.35% (57,088 votes, a record) of total votes.  Rosell signed David Villa from Valencia for €40 million  and Javier Mascherano from Liverpool for €19 million.  In November 2010, Barcelona defeated their main rival, Real Madrid 5–0 in El Clásico . In the 2010–11 season , Barcelona retained the La Liga trophy, their third title in succession, finishing with 96 points.  In April 2011, the club reached the Copa del Rey final , losing 1–0 to Real Madrid at the Mestalla in Valencia.  In May, Barcelona defeated Manchester United in the 2011 Champions League Final 3–1 held at Wembley Stadium , a repeat of the 2009 final, winning their fourth European Cup.  In August 2011, La Masia graduate Cesc Fàbregas was bought from Arsenal and he would help Barcelona defend the Spanish Supercup against Real Madrid. The Supercup victory brought the total number of official trophies to 73, matching the number of titles won by Real Madrid.  , Later the same month, Barcelona won the UEFA Super Cup after defeating Porto 2–0 thanks to goals from Lionel Messi and Cesc Fàbregas . This extended the club's overall number of official trophies to 74, surpassing Real Madrid's total amount of official trophies.  The UEFA Super Cup victory also marked another impressive achievement as Josep Guardiola won his 12th trophy out of 15 possible in only three years at the helm of the club, becoming the all-time record holder of most titles won as a coach at FC Barcelona.  , In December, Barcelona won the FIFA Club World Cup for a record second time since its establishment, by beating the Brazilian 2011 Copa Libertadores holders, Santos , 4–0 in the final thanks to two goals from Lionel Messi and goals from Xavi and Fàbregas.  As a result, the overall trophy haul during the reign of Guardiola was further extended and saw Barcelona win their 13th trophy out of 24 possible in four years, continuing their high-quality performance in recent world football competitions.   , In the 2011–12 season, Barcelona lost the semi-finals of the UEFA Champions League against Chelsea . Right afterward, coach Pep Guardiola , who had been on a rolling contract and had faced criticism over his recent tactics and squad selections,   announced that he would step down as manager on 30 June and be succeeded by assistant Tito Vilanova .   Guardiola finished his tenure with Barça winning the Copa del Rey final 3–0, bringing the tally to 14 trophies that Barça had won under his stewardship. , It was announced in summer of 2012 that Tito Vilanova , assistant manager at FC Barcelona, would take over from Pep Guardiola as manager. Following his appointment, Barcelona went on an incredible run that saw them hold the top spot on the league table for the entire season, recording only two losses and amassing 100 points. Their top scorer once again was Lionel Messi, who scored 46 goals in the League, including two hat-tricks. On 11 May 2013 Barcelona were crowned as the Spanish football champions for the 22nd time, still with four games left to play. Ultimately Barcelona ended the season 15 points clear of rivals Real Madrid, despite losing 2–1 to them at the beginning of March.  They reached the semifinal stage of both the Copa del Rey and the Champions League , going out to Real Madrid and Bayern Munich respectively. On 19 July, it was announced that Vilanova was resigning as Barcelona manager because his throat cancer had returned, and he would be receiving treatment for the second time after a three-month medical leave in December 2012.  , On 22 July 2013, Gerardo 'Tata' Martino was confirmed as manager of FC Barcelona for the 2013–14 season.  Barcelona's first official games under Martino were the home and away legs of the 2013 Spanish Supercup , which Barça won 1–1 on away goals. On 23 January 2014, Sandro Rosell resigned as president by the admissibility of the complaint for alleged misappropriation following the transfer of Neymar . Josep Maria Bartomeu replaced him to finish the term in 2016. , In April 2014, FIFA banned the club from buying players for the next two transfer windows following the violation of the FIFA's rules about the transfer of footballers aged under 18.  A statement on FIFA's website read "With regard to the case in question, FC Barcelona has been found to be in breach of art. 19 of the Regulations in the case of ten minor players and to have committed several other concurrent infringements in the context of other players, including under Annexe 2 of the Regulations. The Disciplinary Committee regarded the infringements as serious and decided to sanction the club with a transfer ban at both national and international level for two complete and consecutive transfer periods, together with a fine of CHF 450,000. Additionally, the club was granted a period of 90 days in which to regularise the situation of all minor players concerned."  FIFA rejected an appeal in August but the pending appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport allowed Barcelona to sign players during the summer of 2014.  , , On 17 May, in a game where they needed to defeat Atlético Madrid (who had eliminated them from the UEFA Champions League in the quarterfinals earlier in the year) to be crowned champions of La Liga for the 23rd time, they drew after Atlético defender Diego Godín headed in the equalizer in the 49th minute, giving Atlético the championship.  , On 19 May 2014, it was announced that Luis Enrique would return to Barcelona as head coach, after he agreed to a two-year deal. He was recommended by sporting director Andoni Zubizarreta , his former national teammate.   Following Enrique's arrival, Barcelona broke their transfer record when they paid Liverpool F.C. between €81 to €94 million for striker Luis Suárez ,   who was serving a four-month ban from all football-related activity imposed by the FIFA Disciplinary Committee after biting Italian defender Giorgio Chiellini during his appearance for Uruguay in a World Cup group stage match .    , In late December 2014, Barcelona's appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport was unsuccessful and the original transfer ban was reinstated, leaving the club unable to utilise the 2015 winter and summer transfer windows.  On 5 January 2015, Zubizareta was sacked by the board after 4 years as director of football.  On 12 February 2015, Barcelona announced the formation of a new Football Area Technical Commission, made up of vice-president Jordi Mestre, board member Javier Bordas, Carles Rexach and Ariedo Braida.  , Barcelona won the treble in the 2014–2015 season, winning La Liga, Copa del Rey and UEFA Champions League titles, and became the first European team to have won the treble twice.  On 17 May the club clinched their 23rd La Liga title after defeating Atlético Madrid .  This was Barcelona's seventh La Liga title in the last ten years.  On 30 May, the club defeated Athletic Bilbao in the Copa del Rey final at Camp Nou .  On 6 June, Barcelona won the UEFA Champions League final with a 3–1 win against Juventus , which completed the treble , the club's second in 6 years.  , The nickname culé for a Barcelona supporter is derived from the Catalan cul (English: arse), as the spectators at the first stadium, Camp de la Indústria , sat with their culs over the stand. In Spain, about 25% of the population is said to be Barça sympathisers, second behind Real Madrid, supported by 32% of the population.  Throughout Europe, Barcelona is the favourite second-choice club.  The club's membership figures have seen a significant increase from 100,000 in the 2003–04 season to 170,000 in September 2009,  the sharp rise being attributed to the influence of Ronaldinho and then-president Joan Laporta 's media strategy that focused on Spanish and English online media.   , In addition to membership, as of 2010 [update] there are 1,335 officially registered fan clubs, called penyes , around the world. The fan clubs promote Barcelona in their locality and receive beneficial offers when visiting Barcelona.  Among the best supported teams globally, Barcelona has the highest social media following in the world among all sports teams, with over 82 million Facebook fans as of February 2015.    The club has had many prominent people among its supporters, including Pope John Paul II , who was an honorary member, and former prime minister of Spain José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero .   FC Barcelona has the second highest average attendance of European football clubs only behind Borussia Dortmund .   , There is often a fierce rivalry between the two strongest teams in a national league, and this is particularly the case in La Liga, where the game between Barça and Real Madrid is known as El Clásico . From the start of national competitions the clubs were seen as representatives of two rival regions in Spain: Catalonia and Castile , as well as of the two cities. The rivalry reflects what many regard as the political and cultural tensions felt between Catalans and the Castilians , seen by one author as a re-enactment of the Spanish Civil War .  , During the dictatorships of Miguel Primo de Rivera (1923-1930) and especially of Francisco Franco (1939–1975), all regional cultures were suppressed. All of the languages spoken in Spanish territory, except Spanish ( Castilian ) itself, were officially banned.   Symbolising the Catalan people's desire for freedom, Barça became 'More than a club' ( Més que un club ) for the Catalans. According to Manuel Vázquez Montalbán , the best way for the Catalans to demonstrate their identity was by joining Barça. It was less risky than joining a clandestine anti-Franco movement, and allowed them to express their dissidence.  During Franco's regime, however, the blaugrana team was granted profit due to its good relationship with the dictator at management level, even giving two awards to him.  , On the other hand, Real Madrid was widely seen as the embodiment of the sovereign oppressive centralism and the fascist regime at management level and beyond: Santiago Bernabeu , the former club president for whom their stadium is named, fought on the Nationalist side during the Spanish Civil War .   However, during the Spanish Civil War, members of both clubs such as Josep Sunyol and Rafael Sánchez Guerra suffered at the hands of Franco supporters. , During the 1950s the rivalry was exacerbated further when there was a controversy surrounding the transfer of Alfredo di Stéfano , who finally played for Real Madrid and was key to their subsequent success.  The 1960s saw the rivalry reach the European stage when they met twice in a controversial knock-out round of the European Cup, with Madrid receiving unfavourable treatment from the referee.   In 2002, the European encounter between the clubs was dubbed the "Match of The Century" by Spanish media, and Madrid's win was watched by more than 500 million people.  , Barça's local rival has always been Espanyol . Blanc-i-blaus , being one of the clubs granted royal patronage, was founded exclusively by Spanish football fans, unlike the multinational nature of Barça's primary board. The founding message of the club was clearly anti-Barcelona, and they disapprovingly saw FC Barcelona as a team of foreigners.  The rivalry was strengthened by what Catalonians saw as a provocative representative of Madrid.  Their original ground was in the affluent district of Sarrià .   , Traditionally, Espanyol was seen by the vast majority of Barcelona's citizens as a club which cultivated a kind of compliance to the central authority, in stark contrast to Barça's revolutionary spirit.  Also in the 1960s and 1970s, while FC Barcelona acted as an integrating force for Catalonia's new arrivals from poorer regions of Spain expecting to find a better life, Espanyol drew their support mainly from sectors close to the regime such as policemen, military officers, civil servants and career fascists.  , In 1918 Espanyol started a counter-petition against autonomy, which at that time had become a pertinent issue.  Later on, an Espanyol supporter group would join the Falangists in the Spanish Civil War, siding with the fascists. Despite these differences in ideology, the derbi has always been more relevant to Espanyol supporters than Barcelona ones due to the difference in objectives. In recent years the rivalry has become less political, as Espanyol translated its official name and anthem from Spanish to Catalan.  , Though it is the most played local derby in the history of La Liga, it is also the most unbalanced, with Barcelona overwhelmingly dominant . In the league table, Espanyol has only managed to end above Barça on three occasions in almost 70 years and the only all-Catalan Copa del Rey final was won by Barça in 1957 . Espanyol has the consolation of achieving the largest margin win with a 6–0 in 1951. Espanyol achieved a 2–1 win against Barça during the 2008–09 season, becoming the first team to defeat Barcelona at Camp Nou in their treble-winning season .  , In 2010, Forbes evaluated Barcelona's worth to be around €752 million (USD $1 billion), ranking them fourth after Manchester United, Real Madrid, and Arsenal, based on figures from the 2008–09 season.   According to Deloitte , Barcelona had a recorded revenue of €366 million in the same period, ranking second to Real Madrid, who generated €401 million in revenue.  In 2013, Forbes magazine ranked Barcelona the third most valuable sports team in the world, behind Real Madrid and Manchester United, with a value of $2.6 billion.  , Along with Real Madrid, Athletic Bilbao, and Osasuna , Barcelona is organised as a registered association. Unlike a limited company , it is not possible to purchase shares in the club, but only membership.  The members of Barcelona, called socis , form an assembly of delegates which is the highest governing body of the club.  As of 2010 [update] the club has 170,000 socis .  , An audit by Deloitte in July 2010 showed that Barcelona had a net debt of €442 million, currently 58% of net worth as evaluated by Forbes . The new management of Barcelona, which had ordered the audit, cited "structural problems" as the cause of the debt.  News had emerged that the club had recorded a loss of approximately €79 million over the course of the year, despite having defended their La Liga title.  , For 2011, Barcelona's gross debt stands at around €483m and the net debt is at €364m.  Barcelona was found to have the highest average salary per player of all professional sports teams in the world, just ahead of rival Real Madrid.  , Xavi Hernández presently holds the team record for number of total games played (767) and the record number of La Liga appearances (505), surpassing the previous record holder Migueli (391).  , FC Barcelona's all-time highest goalscorer in all competitions (including friendlies) is Lionel Messi with 440 goals.   Messi is also the all-time highest goalscorer for Barcelona in all official competitions, excluding friendlies, with 412 goals. He is the record goalscorer for Barcelona in European (78 goals) and international club competitions (83 goals),  and the record league scorer with 286 goals in La Liga. Four people have managed to score over 100 league goals at Barcelona: Lionel Messi (278), César Rodríguez (192), László Kubala (131) and Samuel Eto'o (108). , On 2 February 2009, Barcelona reached a total of 5,000 La Liga goals. The goal was converted by Lionel Messi in a game against Racing Santander , which Barça won 2–1.  On 18 December 2009 Barcelona beat Estudiantes 2–1 to win their sixth title in a year and became the first ever football team to complete the sextuple.  , Barcelona's highest home attendance was 120,000, for a European Cup quarter-final against Juventus on 3 March 1986.  The modernisation of Camp Nou during the 1990s and the introduction of all-seater stands means the record will not be broken for the foreseeable future as the current capacity of the stadium is 99,354.  , Since its foundation the club has played with a crest. The club's original crest was a quartered diamond-shaped crest topped by the Crown of Aragon and the bat of King James , and surrounded by two branches, one of a laurel tree and the other a palm.  In 1910 the club held a competition among its members to design a new crest. The winner was Carles Comamala , who at the time played for the club. Comamala's suggestion became the crest that the club wears today, with some minor variations. The crest consists of the St George Cross in the upper-left corner with the Catalan flag beside it, and the team colours at the bottom.  , The blue and red colours of the shirt were first worn in a match against Hispania in 1900.  Several competing theories have been put forth for the blue and red design of the Barcelona shirt. The son of the first president, Arthur Witty , claimed it was the idea of his father as the colours were the same as the Merchant Taylor's School team. Another explanation, according to author Toni Strubell, is that the colours are from Robespierre's First Republic . In Catalonia the common perception is that the colours were chosen by Joan Gamper and are those of his home team, FC Basel .  The club's most frequently used change colours have been yellow and orange. An away kit featuring the red and yellow stripes of the flag of Catalonia has also been used. , Prior to the 2011–2012 season, Barcelona had a long history of avoiding corporate sponsorship on the playing shirts. On 14 July 2006, the club announced a five-year agreement with UNICEF , which includes having the UNICEF logo on their shirts. The agreement had the club donate €1.5 million per year to UNICEF (0.7 percent of its ordinary income, equal to the UN International Aid Target, cf. ODA ) via the FC Barcelona Foundation.  The FC Barcelona Foundation is an entity set up in 1994 on the suggestion of then-chairman of the Economical-Statutory Committee, Jaime Gil-Aluja. The idea was to set up a foundation that could attract financial sponsorships to support a non-profit sport company.  In 2004, a company could become one of 25 "Honorary members" by contributing between £40,000–60,000 (£54,800–82,300)  per year. There are also 48 associate memberships available for an annual fee of £14,000 (£19,200)  and an unlimited number of "patronages" for the cost of £4,000 per year (£5,500).  It is unclear whether the honorary members have any formal say in club policy, but according to the author Anthony King, it is "unlikely that Honorary Membership would not involve at least some informal influence over the club".  , Barcelona ended their refusal of corporate sponsorship prior to the commencement of the 2011–12 season, signing a five-year €150m deal with Qatar Sports Investments, that meant the Qatar Foundation  was on the club's shirt for the 11/12 and 12/13 seasons, then replaced by Qatar Airways for the 13/14 season, the deal allowing for a commercial sponsor logo to replace the charity logo, two years into the six-year deal.  In 2014, Barcelona announced an official partnership with IronFX , a foreign exchange trading company.   , Barcelona initially played in the Camp de la Indústria . The capacity was about 6,000, and club officials deemed the facilities inadequate for a club with growing membership.  , In 1922, the number of supporters had surpassed 20,000 and by lending money to the club, Barça was able to build the larger Camp de Les Corts , which had an initial capacity of 20,000 spectators. After the Spanish Civil War the club started attracting more members and a larger number of spectators at matches. This led to several expansion projects: the grandstand in 1944, the southern stand in 1946, and finally the northern stand in 1950. After the last expansion, Les Corts could hold 60,000 spectators.  , After the construction was complete there was no further room for expansion at Les Corts. Back-to-back La Liga titles in 1948 and 1949 and the signing of László Kubala in June 1950, who would later go on to score 196 goals in 256 matches, drew larger crowds to the games.    The club began to make plans for a new stadium.  The building of Camp Nou commenced on 28 March 1954, before a crowd of 60,000 Barça fans. The first stone of the future stadium was laid in place under the auspices of Governor Felipe Acedo Colunga and with the blessing of Archbishop of Barcelona Gregorio Modrego. Construction took three years and ended on 24 September 1957 with a final cost of 288 million pesetas , 336% over budget.  , In 1980, when the stadium was in need of redesign to meet UEFA criteria, the club raised money by offering supporters the opportunity to inscribe their name on the bricks for a small fee. The idea was popular with supporters, and thousands of people paid the fee. Later this became the centre of controversy when media in Madrid picked up reports that one of the stones was inscribed with the name of long-time Real Madrid chairman and Franco supporter Santiago Bernabéu .    In preparation for the 1992 Summer Olympics two tiers of seating were installed above the previous roofline.  It has a current capacity of 99,354 making it the largest stadium in Europe.  , There are also other facilities, which include:  , As of June 2015 [update] , Barcelona has won 23 La Liga , 27 Copa del Rey , 11 Supercopa de España , three Copa Eva Duarte [ note 2 ] and two Copa de la Liga trophies, as well as being the record holder for the latter four competitions. They have also won five UEFA Champions League , a record four UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , four UEFA Super Cup and a record two FIFA Club World Cup trophies.   They also won a record three Inter-Cities Fairs Cup trophies, considered the predecessor to the UEFA Cup - Europa League . , Barcelona is the only European club to have played continental football every season since 1955, and one of three clubs to have never been relegated from La Liga , along with Athletic Bilbao and Real Madrid . In 2009, Barcelona became the first club in Spain to win the treble consisting of La Liga , Copa del Rey , and the Champions League . That same year, it also became the first football club ever to win six out of six competitions in a single year, thus completing the sextuple , comprising the aforementioned treble and the Spanish Super Cup , UEFA Super Cup and FIFA Club World Cup .  In the 2014-15 season , Barcelona won another historic treble, making them the first club in European football to win the treble twice.  , Spanish teams are limited to three players without EU citizenship. The squad list includes only the principal nationality of each player; several non-European players on the squad have dual citizenship with an EU country. Also, players from the ACP countries —countries in Africa, the Caribbean, and the Pacific that are signatories to the Cotonou Agreement —are not counted against non-EU quotas due to the Kolpak ruling . , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  Liverpool Football Club / ˈ l ɪ v ər p uː l / are a Premier League football club based in Liverpool . The club have won more European trophies than any other English team with five European Cups , three UEFA Cups and three UEFA Super Cups . They have also won eighteen League titles , seven FA Cups and a record eight League Cups , although they are yet to win a Premier League title since its inception in 1992. , Liverpool were founded in 1892 and joined the Football League the following year. They have played at Anfield since its formation. The most successful period in Liverpool's history was the 1970s and '80s when Bill Shankly and Bob Paisley led the club to eleven league titles and seven European trophies. , The club's supporters have been involved in two major tragedies. The first was the Heysel Stadium disaster in 1985, during which charging Liverpool fans caused a crush that resulted in a wall collapsing and the death of 39 Juventus supporters, after which English clubs were banned from European competition for five years. In the 1989 Hillsborough disaster , 96 Liverpool supporters lost their lives in a crush against perimeter fencing. , Liverpool have long-standing rivalries with neighbours Everton and with Manchester United . The team changed from red shirts and white shorts to an all-red home strip in 1964. The club's anthem is " You'll Never Walk Alone ". In May 2015 they were ranked by Forbes as the eighth most valuable football club in the world , at $982 million.  , , , Liverpool F.C. was founded following a dispute between the Everton committee and John Houlding , club president and owner of the land at Anfield . After eight years at the stadium, Everton relocated to Goodison Park in 1892 and Houlding founded Liverpool F.C. to play at Anfield.  Originally named "Everton F.C. and Athletic Grounds Ltd" (Everton Athletic for short), the club became Liverpool F.C. in March 1892 and gained official recognition three months later, after The Football Association refused to recognise the club as Everton.  The team won the Lancashire League in its début season, and joined the Football League Second Division at the start of the 1893–94 season. After finishing in first place the club was promoted to the First Division , which it won in 1901 and again in 1906.  , Liverpool reached its first FA Cup Final in 1914 , losing 1–0 to Burnley It won consecutive League championships in 1922 and 1923, but did not win another trophy until the 1946–47 season, when the club won the First Division for a fifth time under the control of ex West Ham Utd centre half George Kay .  Liverpool suffered its second Cup Final defeat in 1950, playing against Arsenal.  The club was relegated to the Second Division in the 1953–54 season.  Soon after Liverpool lost 2–1 to non-league Worcester City in the 1958–59 FA Cup, Bill Shankly was appointed manager. Upon his arrival he released 24 players and converted a boot storage room at Anfield into a room where the coaches could discuss strategy; here, Shankly and other " Boot Room " members Joe Fagan , Reuben Bennett , and Bob Paisley began reshaping the team.  , The club was promoted back into the First Division in 1962 and won it in 1964, for the first time in 17 years. In 1965, the club won its first FA Cup. In 1966, the club won the First Division but lost to Borussia Dortmund in the European Cup Winners' Cup final.  Liverpool won both the League and the UEFA Cup during the 1972–73 season, and the FA Cup again a year later. Shankly retired soon afterwards and was replaced by his assistant, Bob Paisley.  In 1976, Paisley's second season as manager, the club won another League and UEFA Cup double. The following season, the club retained the League title and won the European Cup for the first time, but it lost in the 1977 FA Cup Final. Liverpool retained the European Cup in 1978 and regained the First Division title in 1979.  During Paisley's nine seasons as manager Liverpool won 21 trophies, including three European Cups, a UEFA Cup, six League titles and three consecutive League Cups ; the only domestic trophy he did not win was the FA Cup.  , Paisley retired in 1983 and was replaced by his assistant, Joe Fagan.  Liverpool won the League, League Cup and European Cup in Fagan's first season, becoming the first English side to win three trophies in a season.  Liverpool reached the European Cup final again in 1985, against Juventus at the Heysel Stadium . Before kick-off, Liverpool fans breached a fence which separated the two groups of supporters, and charged the Juventus fans. The resulting weight of people caused a retaining wall to collapse, killing 39 fans, mostly Italians. The incident became known as the Heysel Stadium disaster . The match was played in spite of protests by both managers, and Liverpool lost 1–0 to Juventus. As a result of the tragedy, English clubs were banned from participating in European competition for five years; Liverpool received a ten-year ban, which was later reduced to six years. Fourteen Liverpool fans received convictions for involuntary manslaughter.  , Fagan had announced his retirement just before the disaster and Kenny Dalglish was appointed as player-manager .  During his tenure, the club won another three League Championships and two FA Cups, including a League and Cup " Double " in the 1985–86 season. Liverpool's success was overshadowed by the Hillsborough disaster : in an FA Cup semi-final against Nottingham Forest on 15 April 1989, hundreds of Liverpool fans were crushed against perimeter fencing.  Ninety-four fans died that day; the 95th victim died in hospital from his injuries four days later and the 96th died nearly four years later, without regaining consciousness.  After the Hillsborough disaster there was a government review of stadium safety. The resulting Taylor Report paved the way for legislation that required top-division teams to have all-seater stadiums. The report ruled that the main reason for the disaster was overcrowding due to a failure of police control.  , Liverpool was involved in the closest finish to a league season during the 1988–89 season. Liverpool finished equal with Arsenal on both points and goal difference, but lost the title on total goals scored when Arsenal scored the final goal in the last minute of the season .  , Dalglish cited the Hillsborough disaster and its repercussions as the reason for his resignation in 1991; he was replaced by former player Graeme Souness .  Under his leadership Liverpool won the 1992 FA Cup Final, but their league performances slumped, with two consecutive sixth-place finishes, eventually resulting in his dismissal in January 1994. Souness was replaced by Roy Evans , and Liverpool went on to win the 1995 Football League Cup Final. While they made some title challenges under Evans, third-place finishes in 1996 and 1998 were the best they could manage, and so Gérard Houllier was appointed co-manager in the 1998–99 season, and became the sole manager in November 1998 after Evans resigned.  In 2001, Houllier's second full season in charge, Liverpool won a " Treble ": the FA Cup, League Cup and UEFA Cup.  Houllier underwent major heart surgery during the 2001–02 season and Liverpool finished second in the League, behind Arsenal.  They won a further League Cup in 2003, but failed to mount a title challenge in the two seasons that followed. , Houllier was replaced by Rafael Benítez at the end of the 2003–04 season. Despite finishing fifth in Benítez's first season, Liverpool won the 2004–05 UEFA Champions League , beating A.C. Milan 3–2 in a penalty shootout after the match ended with a score of 3–3.  The following season, Liverpool finished third in the Premier League and won the 2006 FA Cup Final, beating West Ham United in a penalty shootout after the match finished on 3–3.  American businessmen George Gillett and Tom Hicks became the owners of the club during the 2006–07 season, in a deal which valued the club and its outstanding debts at £218.9 million.  The club reached the 2007 UEFA Champions League Final against Milan, as it had in 2005, but this time Liverpool lost 2–1.  During the 2008–09 season Liverpool achieved 86 points, its highest Premier League points total, and finished as runners up to Manchester United .  , In the 2009–10 season, Liverpool finished seventh in the Premier League and failed to qualify for the Champions League. Benítez subsequently left by mutual consent  and was replaced by Fulham manager Roy Hodgson .  At the start of the 2010–11 season Liverpool was on the verge of bankruptcy and the club's creditors asked the High Court to allow the sale of the club, overruling the wishes of Hicks and Gillett. John W. Henry , owner of the Boston Red Sox and of Fenway Sports Group , bid successfully for the club and took ownership in October 2010.  Poor results during the start of that season led to Hodgson leaving the club by mutual consent and former player & manager Kenny Dalglish taking over.  Despite a record 8th League Cup success against Cardiff and an FA Cup final defeat to Chelsea, Liverpool finished in eighth position in the 2011–12 season, the worst league finish in 18 years and led to the sacking of Dalglish.   He was replaced by Brendan Rodgers .  In his first season , Liverpool finished in seventh. In the 2013–14 season, Liverpool mounted an unexpected title charge to finish second behind champions Manchester City and subsequently return to the Champions League, scoring 101 goals in the process, the most since the 106 scored in the 1895–96 season.   , For much of Liverpool's history its home colours have been all red, but when the club was founded its kit was more like the contemporary Everton kit. The blue and white quartered shirts were used until 1894, when the club adopted the city's colour of red.  The city's symbol of the liver bird was adopted as the club's badge in 1901, although it was not incorporated into the kit until 1955. Liverpool continued to wear red shirts and white shorts until 1964, when manager Bill Shankly decided to change to an all red strip.  Liverpool played in all red for the first time against Anderlecht , as Ian St. John recalled in his autobiography: , He [Shankly] thought the colour scheme would carry psychological impact—red for danger, red for power. He came into the dressing room one day and threw a pair of red shorts to Ronnie Yeats. "Get into those shorts and let's see how you look", he said. "Christ, Ronnie, you look awesome, terrifying. You look 7ft tall." "Why not go the whole hog, boss?" I suggested. "Why not wear red socks? Let's go out all in red." Shankly approved and an iconic kit was born.  , The Liverpool away strip has more often than not been all yellow or white shirts and black shorts, but there have been several exceptions. An all grey kit was introduced in 1987, which was used until the 1991–92 centenary season, when it was replaced by a combination of green shirts and white shorts. After various colour combinations in the 1990s, including gold and navy, bright yellow, black and grey, and ecru , the club alternated between yellow and white away kits until the 2008–09 season, when it re-introduced the grey kit. A third kit is designed for European away matches, though it is also worn in domestic away matches on occasions when the current away kit clashes with a team's home kit. The current kits are designed by Warrior Sports , who became the club's kit providers at the start of the 2012–13 season.  In February 2015, Warrior's parent company New Balance announced it would be entering the global football market, with teams sponsored by Warrior now being outfitted by New Balance.  The only other branded shirts worn by the club were made by Umbro until 1985, when they were replaced by Adidas , who produced the kits until 1996 when Reebok took over. They produced the kits for ten years before Adidas made the kits from 2006 to 2012.  , Liverpool was the first English professional club to have a sponsor's logo on its shirts, after agreeing a deal with Hitachi in 1979.  Since then the club has been sponsored by Crown Paints , Candy , Carlsberg and Standard Chartered Bank . The contract with Carlsberg, which was signed in 1992, was the longest-lasting agreement in English top-flight football.  The association with Carlsberg ended at the start of the 2010–11 season, when Standard Chartered Bank became the club's sponsor.  , The Liverpool badge is based on the city's liver bird, which in the past had been placed inside a shield. In 1992, to commemorate the centennial of the club, a new badge was commissioned, including a representation of the Shankly Gates . The next year twin flames were added at either side are symbolic of the Hillsborough memorial outside Anfield, where an eternal flame burns in memory of those who died in the Hillsborough disaster.  In 2012, Warrior Sports' first Liverpool kit removed the shield and gates, returning the badge to what had adorned Liverpool shirts in the 1970s; the flames were moved to the back collar of the shirt, surrounding the number 96 for number who died at Hillsborough.  , Anfield was built in 1884 on land adjacent to Stanley Park . It was originally used by Everton before the club moved to Goodison Park after a dispute over rent with Anfield owner John Houlding.  Left with an empty ground, Houlding founded Liverpool in 1892 and the club has played at Anfield ever since. The capacity of the stadium at the time was 20,000, although only 100 spectators attended Liverpool's first match at Anfield.  , In 1906 the banked stand at one end of the ground was formally renamed the Spion Kop after a hill in KwaZulu-Natal.  The hill was the site of the Battle of Spion Kop in the Second Boer War , where over 300 men of the Lancashire Regiment died, many of them from Liverpool.  At its peak, the stand could hold 28,000 spectators and was one of the largest single-tier stands in the world. Many stadia in England had stands named after Spion Kop, but Anfield's was the largest of them at the time; it could hold more supporters than some entire football grounds.  , Anfield could accommodate more than 60,000 supporters at its peak, and had a capacity of 55,000 until the 1990s. The Taylor Report and Premier League regulations obliged Liverpool to convert Anfield to an all-seater stadium in time for the 1993–94 season, reducing the capacity to 45,276.  The findings of the Taylor Report precipitated the redevelopment of the Kemlyn Road Stand, which was rebuilt in 1992, coinciding with the centenary of the club, and is now known as the Centenary Stand. An extra tier was added to the Anfield Road end in 1998, which further increased the capacity of the ground but gave rise to problems when it was opened. A series of support poles and stanchions were inserted to give extra stability to the top tier of the stand after movement of the tier was reported at the start of the 1999–2000 season.  , Because of restrictions on expanding the capacity at Anfield, Liverpool announced plans to move to the proposed Stanley Park Stadium in May 2002.  Planning permission was granted in July 2004,  and in September 2006, Liverpool City Council agreed to grant Liverpool a 999-year lease on the proposed site.  Following the takeover of the club by George Gillett and Tom Hicks in February 2007, the proposed stadium was redesigned. The new design was approved by the Council in November 2007. The stadium was scheduled to open in August 2011 and would hold 60,000 spectators, with HKS, Inc. contracted to build the stadium.  Construction was halted in August 2008, as Gillett and Hicks had difficulty in financing the £300 million needed for the development.  In October 2012, BBC Sport reported that Fenway Sports Group, the new owners of Liverpool FC, had decided to redevelop their current home at Anfield stadium, rather than building a new stadium in Stanley Park. As part of the redevelopment the capacity of Anfield was to increase from 45,276 to approximately 60,000 and would cost in the region of £150m.  , Liverpool is one of the best supported clubs in Europe.  The club states that its worldwide fan base includes more than 200 officially recognised Club of the LFC Official Supporters Clubs in at least 50 countries.  The club takes advantage of this support through its worldwide summer tours.  Liverpool fans often refer to themselves as Kopites , a reference to the fans who once stood, and now sit, on the Kop at Anfield.  In 2008 a group of fans decided to form a splinter club, A.F.C. Liverpool , to play matches for fans who had been priced out of watching Premier League football.  , The song " You'll Never Walk Alone ", originally from the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical Carousel and later recorded by Liverpool musicians Gerry & The Pacemakers , is the club's anthem and has been sung by the Anfield crowd since the early 1960s. It has since gained popularity among fans of other clubs around the world.  The song's title adorns the top of the Shankly Gates, which were unveiled on 2 August 1982 in memory of former manager Bill Shankly. The "You'll Never Walk Alone" portion of the Shankly Gates is also reproduced on the club's crest. , The club's supporters have been involved in two stadium disasters. The first was the 1985 Heysel Stadium disaster, in which 39 Juventus supporters were killed. They were confined to a corner by Liverpool fans who had charged in their direction; the weight of the cornered fans caused a wall to collapse. UEFA laid the blame for the incident solely on the Liverpool supporters,  and banned all English clubs from European competition for five years. Liverpool was banned for an additional year, preventing it from participating in the 1990–91 European Cup, even though it won the League in 1990.  Twenty-seven fans were arrested on suspicion of manslaughter and were extradited to Belgium in 1987 to face trial.  In 1989, after a five-month trial in Belgium, 14 Liverpool fans were given three-year sentences for involuntary manslaughter;  half of the terms were suspended.  , The second disaster took place during an FA Cup semi-final between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest at Hillsborough Stadium, Sheffield, on 15 April 1989. Ninety-six Liverpool fans died as a consequence of overcrowding at the Leppings Lane end, in what became known as the Hillsborough disaster. In the following days The Sun newspaper published an article entitled "The Truth", in which it claimed that Liverpool fans had robbed the dead and had urinated on and attacked the police.  Subsequent investigations proved the allegations false, leading to a boycott of the newspaper by Liverpool fans across the city and elsewhere; many still refuse to buy The Sun more than 20 years later.  Many support organisations were set up in the wake of the disaster, such as the Hillsborough Justice Campaign, which represents bereaved families, survivors and supporters in their efforts to secure justice.  , Liverpool's longest-established rivalry is with fellow Merseyside team Everton, against whom the club contest the Merseyside derby . Their rivalry stems from Liverpool's formation and the dispute with Everton officials and the then owners of Anfield. Unlike other rivalries, there is no political, geographical or religious split between Liverpool and Everton.  The Merseyside derby is usually sold out. It is one of the few local derbies which do not enforce fan segregation, and hence was known as the "friendly derby".  Since the mid-1980s, the rivalry has intensified both on and off the field and, since the inception of the Premier League in 1992, the Merseyside derby has had more players sent off than any other Premier League game. It has been referred to as "the most ill-disciplined and explosive fixture in the Premier League".  , Liverpool's rivalry with Manchester United is viewed as a manifestation of the cities' competition during the Industrial Revolution of the 19th century.  The two clubs alternated as champions between 1964 and 1967 ,  and Manchester United became the first English team to win the European Cup in 1968 , followed by Liverpool's four European Cup victories.  Despite the 38 league titles and eight European Cups between them  the two rivals have rarely been successful at the same time – Liverpool's run of titles in the 1970s and '80s coincided with Manchester United's 26-year title drought, and United's success in the Premier League -era has likewise coincided with Liverpool's ongoing drought,  and the two clubs have finished first and second in the league only five times.  Nonetheless, former Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson said in 2002, "My greatest challenge was knocking Liverpool right off their fucking perch",  and the last player to be transferred between the two clubs was Phil Chisnall , who moved to Liverpool from Manchester United in 1964.  , As the owner of Anfield and founder of Liverpool, John Houlding was the club's first chairman, a position he held from its founding in 1892 until 1904. John McKenna took over as chairman after Houlding's departure.  McKenna subsequently became President of the Football League.  The chairmanship changed hands many times before John Smith, whose father was a shareholder of the club, took up the role in 1973. He oversaw the most successful period in Liverpool's history before stepping down in 1990.  His successor was Noel White who became Chairman in 1990  In August 1991 David Moores , whose family had owned the club for more than 50 years became Chairman. His uncle John Moores was also a shareholder at Liverpool and was chairman of Everton from 1961 to 1973. Moores owned 51 percent of the club, and in 2004 expressed his willingness to consider a bid for his shares in Liverpool.  , Moores eventually sold the club to American businessmen George Gillett and Tom Hicks on 6 February 2007. The deal valued the club and its outstanding debts at £218.9 million. The pair paid £5,000 per share, or £174.1m for the total shareholding and £44.8m to cover the club's debts.  Disagreements between Gillett and Hicks, and the fans' lack of support for them, resulted in the pair looking to sell the club.  Martin Broughton was appointed chairman of the club on 16 April 2010 to oversee its sale.  In May 2010, accounts were released showing the holding company of the club to be £350m in debt (due to leveraged takeover) with losses of £55m, causing auditor KPMG to qualify its audit opinion.  The group's creditors, including the Royal Bank of Scotland , took Gillett and Hicks to court to force them to allow the board to proceed with the sale of the club, the major asset of the holding company. A High Court judge, Mr Justice Floyd , ruled in favour of the creditors and paved the way for the sale of the club to Fenway Sports Group (formerly New England Sports Ventures), although Gillett and Hicks still had the option to appeal.  Liverpool was sold to Fenway Sports Group on 15 October 2010 for £300m.  , Liverpool has been described as a global brand; a 2010 report valued the club's trademarks and associated intellectual property at £141m, an increase of £5m on the previous year. Liverpool was given a brand rating of AA (Very Strong).  In April 2010 business magazine Forbes ranked Liverpool as the sixth most valuable football team in the world, behind Manchester United, Real Madrid , Arsenal, Barcelona and Bayern Munich ; they valued the club at $822m (£532m), excluding debt.  Accountants Deloitte ranked Liverpool eighth in the Deloitte Football Money League , which ranks the world's football clubs in terms of revenue. Liverpool's income in the 2009–10 season was €225.3m.  , Liverpool reported a £49.4m annual loss in 2011, although this figure does not include a new £25m kit deal with Warrior Sports. In the 2010–11 season it spent €142m on wages, nearly the same amount as Bayern München , and 2.5 times the amount of Borussia Dortmund.   , Liverpool was the subject of Uefa Financial Fair Play (FFP) investigation in 2014 after exceeding the limit of £35.4m losses over two seasons. The club posted losses of £49.8m in 2012–13 and £41m in 2011–12.  , Because of its successful history, Liverpool is often featured when football is depicted in British culture and has appeared in a number of media firsts. The club appeared in the first edition of the BBC's Match of the Day , which screened highlights of its match against Arsenal at Anfield on 22 August 1964. The first football match to be televised in colour was between Liverpool and West Ham United, broadcast live in March 1967.  Liverpool fans featured in the Pink Floyd song " Fearless ", in which they sang excerpts from "You'll Never Walk Alone".  To mark the club's appearance in the 1988 FA Cup Final, Liverpool released a song known as the " Anfield Rap ", featuring John Barnes and other members of the squad.  , A documentary drama on the Hillsborough disaster, written by Jimmy McGovern , was screened in 1996. It featured Christopher Eccleston as Trevor Hicks, whose story is the focus of the script. Hicks, who lost two teenage daughters in the disaster, went on to campaign for safer stadiums and helped to form the Hillsborough Families Support Group.  Liverpool featured in the film The 51st State (also known as Formula 51 ), in which ex-hitman Felix DeSouza ( Robert Carlyle ) is a keen supporter of the team and the last scene takes place at a match between Liverpool and Manchester United.  The club was featured in a children's television show called Scully ; the plot revolved around a young boy, Francis Scully, who tried to gain a trial match with Liverpool. The show featured prominent Liverpool players of the time such as Kenny Dalglish.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Liverpool's first trophy was the Lancashire League, which it won in the club's first season.  In 1901, the club won its first League title, while its first success in the FA Cup was in 1965. In terms of the number of trophies won, Liverpool's most successful decade was the 1980s, when the club won six League titles, two FA Cups, four League Cups, five Charity Shields (one shared) and two European Cups. Liverpool has won the English League Championship eighteen times, the FA Cup seven times and the League Cup a record eight times. The club achieved a League and FA Cup "double" in 1986 and won the League and European Cup double both in 1977 and in 1984. Liverpool also won the League Cup in 1984 to complete a treble , a feat repeated (albeit with different trophies) in 2001, when the club won the FA Cup, League Cup and UEFA Cup .  , Liverpool has one of the best records in the history of top-level football. The club has accumulated more top-flight wins than any other English team.  Liverpool also has the second-highest average league finishing position for the period 1900–1999, with an average league placing of 8.7.  Liverpool has won the European Cup, Europe's premier club competition, five times, an English record and only surpassed by Real Madrid and A.C. Milan. Liverpool's fifth European Cup win, in 2005, meant that the club was awarded the trophy permanently and was also awarded a multiple-winner badge .   Liverpool has won the UEFA Cup, Europe's secondary club competition, three times.  , Especially short competitions, such as the FA Community Shield and the UEFA Super Cup , are not generally considered to contribute towards a Double or Treble.  , Footnotes , Citations  Amsterdamsche Football Club Ajax ( Dutch pronunciation: [ˈaːjɑks] ), also AFC Ajax or Ajax Amsterdam , is a Dutch professional football club based in Amsterdam . Historically, Ajax (named after the legendary Greek hero ) is the most successful club in the Netherlands , with 33 Eredivisie titles and 18 KNVB Cups . Along with PSV Eindhoven and Feyenoord , it is one of the country's " big three " clubs that have dominated Dutch football (and that are the only three clubs in the Netherlands that have never been relegated from the top division). , Ajax is historically one of the most successful clubs in the world; according to the IFFHS , Ajax were the seventh-most successful European club of the 20th century.  The club is one of the five teams that has earned the right to keep the European Cup and to wear a multiple-winner badge; they won consecutively in 1971–1973. In 1972, they completed the continental treble by winning the Eredivisie , KNVB Cup , and the European Cup . Ajax's last international trophies were the 1995 Intercontinental Cup and the 1995 Champions League , where they defeated Milan in the final ; they lost the 1996 Champions League final on penalties to Juventus . , Ajax is also one of three teams to win the continental treble and the Intercontinental Cup in the same season/calendar year;  This was achieved in the 1971–72 season.  Ajax, Juventus , Bayern Munich , and Chelsea are the four clubs to have won all three major UEFA club competitions.  They have also won the Intercontinental Cup twice, the 1991–92 UEFA Cup , as well as the Karl Rappan Cup , a predecessor of the UEFA Intertoto Cup in 1962.  Ajax plays at the Amsterdam Arena , which opened in 1996. They previously played at De Meer Stadion and the Amsterdam Olympic Stadium (for international matches). , , , Ajax was founded in Amsterdam on 18 March 1900. The club achieved promotion to the highest level of Dutch football in 1911 and had its first major success in 1917, winning the KNVB Beker , the Netherlands' national cup. The following season , Ajax became national champion for the first time. The club defended its title in 1918–19 , becoming the only team to achieve an unbeaten season in the Netherlands Football League Championship.  , Throughout the 1920s, Ajax was a strong regional power, winning the Eerste Klasse West division in 1921, 1927 and 1928, but could not maintain its success at national level. This changed in the 1930s, with the club winning five national championships ( 1931 , 1932 , 1934 , 1937 , 1939 ), making it the most successful Dutch team of the decade. Ajax won its second KNVB Cup in 1942–43, and an eighth Dutch title in 1946–47 , the last season the club was managed by Englishman Jack Reynolds , who, up to this point, had overseen all of its national championship successes as well as its 1917 KNVB Cup win.   , In 1956, the first season of the Netherlands' new professional league, the Eredivisie , was played with Ajax participating as a founding member. The Amsterdam club became the first national champions under the new format and made its debut in the European Champion Clubs' Cup the following year , losing to Hungarian champions Vasas SC 6–2 on aggregate at the quarter-final stage. The team were again Eredivisie champions in 1960 and won a third KNVB Cup in 1961.  , In 1965, Rinus Michels , who had played for the club between 1946 and 1958, was appointed manager of Ajax, implementing his philosophy of Total Football which was to become synonymous with both Ajax and the Netherlands national football team .   A year earlier, Johan Cruijff , who would go on to become the greatest Dutch footballer of all time, made his debut.  Between them, Michels and Cruijff led Ajax through the most successful period in its history, winning seven Eredivisie titles, four KNVB Cups and three European Cups. , Ajax won the Dutch championship in 1966 , 1967 , and 1968 , and reached the 1969 European Cup Final , losing to A.C. Milan . During the 1966–67 season, Ajax scored a record 122 goals in an Eredivisie season and also won the KNVB Cup to achieve its first league and cup double . In 1969–70 , Ajax won a fourth Dutch league championship and second league and cup double in five seasons, winning 27 out of 34 league games and scoring 100 goals.  , The 1970–71 season saw Ajax retain the KNVB Cup and reach the 1971 European Cup Final , where they beat Panathinaikos 2–0 with goals from Dick van Dijk and Arie Haan to become continental champions for the first time, with Cruijff being named European Footballer of the Year . After this success, Michels departed to become manager of FC Barcelona and was replaced by the Romanian Ștefan Kovács . In Kovács' first season, Ajax completed a treble of the European Cup , the Eredivisie and a third consecutive KNVB Cup . The following season, the team beat Argentine club Independiente to win the 1972 Intercontinental Cup and retained their Eredivisie and European Cup titles, becoming the first club to win three consecutive European Cups since Real Madrid in the 1950s. , In 1973, Michels' Barcelona broke the world transfer record to bring Cruijff to Catalonia . Kovács also departed to become manager of the France national football team signalling the end of this period of international success.  , In 1976–77 , Ajax won its first domestic championship in four seasons and recorded a double of the Eredivisie and KNVB Cup two years later. , The early 1980s saw the return of Johan Cruijff to the club, as well as the emergence of young players Marco van Basten and Frank Rijkaard . The team won back-to-back Eredivisie titles in 1982 and 1983 , with all three playing a significant role in the latter. After Cruijff's sale to rivals Feyenoord in 1983, Van Basten became Ajax's key player, top scoring in the Eredivisie for four seasons between 1983–84 and 1986–87 .  , In 1985, Cruijff returned to Ajax as manager and the team ended his first season in charge with 120 goals from 34 matches. However, Ajax still finished as runner up to PSV by eight points. The following season, Ajax again lost out on the Eredivisie title to PSV, but won the European Cup Winners' Cup , its first continental trophy in fourteen years. After this, Cruijff left the club to become manager of Barcelona and Rijkaard and Van Basten were sold to Sporting CP and A.C. Milan respectively. Despite these losses, Ajax reached a second consecutive Cup Winners' Cup final in 1988 , where they lost to Belgian club KV Mechelen .  , The 1988–89 season saw Dennis Bergkamp , a young forward who had first appeared under Cruijff in 1986, establish himself as a regular goalscorer for Ajax. Bergkamp helped Ajax to the 1989–90 Eredivisie title and was the top scorer in the division in 1990–91 , 1991–92 and 1992–93 . Under the management of Louis van Gaal , Ajax won the UEFA Cup in 1992 to become the second club, after Juventus , to have won all three major European club competitions .  , After the sale of Bergkamp to Internazionale in 1993, Van Gaal re-signed the experienced Frank Rijkaard to complement his young Ajax team featuring academy graduates Frank and Ronald de Boer , Edwin van der Sar , Clarence Seedorf , Edgar Davids , Michael Reiziger , and Winston Bogarde , as well as mercurial foreign talents Finidi George , Nwankwo Kanu and Jari Litmanen , and veteran captain Danny Blind .  The team regained the Dutch championship in 1993–94 , and won it again in 1994–95 and 1995–96 to become the first Ajax side to win three back-to-back championships since 1968. The height of Van Gaal's success came in 1994–95, where Ajax became the first, and to date only, team to complete an entire Eredivisie season unbeaten.  The team also won its first European Cup since its glorious 1970s era, beating Milan in the 1995 UEFA Champions League Final 1–0, with the winning goal scored by 18-year-old Patrick Kluivert . Ajax again reached the final a year later but were defeated on penalties by Juventus. , Ajax's return as a European force was short lived as Van Gaal and several members of the squad soon departed to some of the continent's biggest clubs. The 2000s was a lean decade for the club with only two Eredivisie championships won. However, Ajax's academy continued to produce star players such as Wesley Sneijder and Rafael van der Vaart . , In 2010, Frank de Boer was appointed manager of Ajax and led the club to its first league title in seven years, and record 30th title overall, in the 2010–11 season. This was followed by back-to-back wins in 2011–12 and 2012–13 to match his three consecutive titles as a player in the 1990s. In 2013–14 , Ajax were again Eredivisie champions, winning four consecutive league titles for the first time in the club's history.  , The club is also particularly famous for its renowned youth program that has produced many Dutch talents over the years – Johan Cruijff , Edwin van der Sar , Dennis Bergkamp , former national team top scorer Patrick Kluivert , and former national team coach Marco van Basten . Dutch national first-team players Rafael van der Vaart , Ryan Babel , Wesley Sneijder , Maarten Stekelenburg , Eljero Elia , André Ooijer , John Heitinga and Nigel de Jong had also came through the ranks at Ajax and all are now playing for top-flight clubs. Ajax also regularly supplies the Dutch national youth teams with local talent.  First team regulars Siem de Jong , Urby Emanuelson and Gregory van der Wiel are former youth internationals who made the successful step up to the senior side.    , Due to mutual agreements with foreign clubs, the youth academy has also signed foreign players as teenagers before making first team debuts, such as Belgian defensive trio Jan Vertonghen , Toby Alderweireld and Thomas Vermaelen along with winger Tom de Mul , all of whom are full internationals as well as Dutch international Vurnon Anita as well as Javier Martina from Curaçao . , Ajax has also expanded its talent searching program to South Africa with Ajax Cape Town . Ajax Cape Town was set up with the help of Rob Moore . Ajax has also had a satellite club in the United States under the name Ajax America , until it filed for bankruptcy. There are some youth players from Ajax Cape Town that have been drafted into the Eredivisie squad, such as South African internationals Steven Pienaar , Thulani Serero and Cameroonian international Eyong Enoh . , In 1995, the year Ajax won the Champions League , the Dutch national team was almost entirely composed of Ajax players, with Edwin van der Sar in goal; players such as Michael Reiziger , Frank de Boer , and Danny Blind in defense; Ronald de Boer , Edgar Davids , and Clarence Seedorf in midfield; and Patrick Kluivert and Marc Overmars in attack.  , In 2011 AFC Ajax opened its first youth academies outside the Netherlands, when the club partnered up with George Kazianis and All Star Consultancy in Greece to open the Ajax Hellas Youth Academy . The offices are based in Nea Smyrni , Attica , with the main training facility located on the island of Corfu , hosting a total of 15 football youth academies throughout Greece and Cyprus . Eddie van Schaik heads the organization as coach and consultant, introducing the Ajax football philosophy at the various Greek football training camps.   , Ajax' first stadium was built in 1911 out of wood and was called " Het Houten Stadion " (The Wooden Stadium). Ajax later played in the stadium built for the 1928 Summer Olympics hosted in Amsterdam. This stadium, designed by Jan Wils , is known as the Olympic Stadium. In 1934, Ajax moved to De Meer Stadion in east Amsterdam, designed by architect and Ajax-member Daan Roodenburgh , who had also designed the club's first stadium. It could accommodate 29,500 spectators and Ajax continued to play there until 1996. For big European and national fixtures the club would often play at the Olympic Stadium, which could accommodate about twice the number of spectators. , In 1996, Ajax moved to a new home ground in the southeast of the city known as the Amsterdam ArenA This was built by the Amsterdam city authority at a cost of $134 million. The stadium is capable of holding approximately 52,000 people. The average attendance in 2006/07 was 48,610, rising in the next season to 49,128. The ArenA has a retractable roof and set a trend for other modern stadiums built in Europe in the following years. In the Netherlands, the ArenA has earned a reputation for a terrible grass pitch caused by the removable roof that, even when open, takes away too much sunlight and fresh air. During the 2008–2009 season ground staff introduced an artificial lighting system that has finally reduced this problem considerably. , The much-loved De Meer stadium was torn down and the land was sold to the city council. A residential neighbourhood now occupies the area. The only thing left of the old stadium are the letters AJAX, nowadays in place on the façade of the youth training grounds De Toekomst , near the Amsterdam Arena . , In 1900, when the club was founded, the emblem of Ajax was just a picture of an Ajax player. The crest was slightly altered following the club's promotion to the top division in 1911 to match the club's new outfits. In 1928, the club logo was introduced with the head of the Greek hero Ajax . The logo was once again changed in 1990 into an abstract version of the previous one. The new logo still sports the portrait of Ajax, but drawn with just 11 lines, symbolizing the 11 players of a football team.  , Ajax originally played in an all-black uniform with a red sash tied around the players' waists, but that uniform was soon replaced by a red/white striped shirt and black shorts. Red, black and white are the three colours of the flag of Amsterdam . However, when, under manager Jack Kirwan , the club got promoted to the top flight of Dutch football for the first time in 1911 (then the Eerste Klasse or 'First Class', later named the Eredivisie ), Ajax were forced to change their colours because Sparta Rotterdam already had exactly the same outfit. Special kits for away fixtures did not exist at the time and according to football association regulations the newcomers had to change their colours if two teams in the same league had identical uniforms. Ajax opted for white shorts and white shirt with a broad, vertical red stripe over chest and back, which still is Ajax's outfit. , AFC Ajax are the only Dutch club with an Initial public offering (IPO). The club is registered as a Naamloze vennootschap (N.V.) listed on the stock exchange Euronext Amsterdam, since 17 May 1998. With a launch price of ƒ25,- (Guilders) the club managed to a bring their total revenue up to €54 million euros (converted) in their first year on the market.  After short lived success however the rate dropped, at one point as low as €3,50. Criticism was brought forth that the legal grid for a naamloze vennootschap would not be suitable for a Football club, and that the sports related ambitions would suffer from the new commercial interests of the now listed Ajax. Shares of the company in the year 2008 were valued at approximately €5,90 per share.  , In 2008 a Commission under guidance of honorary member Uri Coronel concluded, that the IPO was of no value to the club, and that measures should be taken to exit the stock exchange by purchasing back all public shares.  Ajax remain on the stock exchange.  , Ajax's shirts have been sponsored by TDK from 1982 to 1991, and by ABN AMRO from 1991 to 2008. AEGON then replaced ABN AMRO as the new head sponsor for a period of seven years.  On 1 April 2007, Ajax wore a different sponsor for the match against Heracles Almelo : Florius . Florius is a banking program launched by ABN AMRO who wanted it to be the shirt sponsor for one match. , The shirts have been manufactured by Le Coq Sportif (1973–1977), Puma (1977–1980),  Le Coq Sportif (1980–1984),  Kappa (1985-1989)  and Umbro (1989–2000) in the past, and by Adidas since 2000 (until at least 2019).   , In conclusion of the 2013–14 season , Ajax won the Football shirt of the Year award for their black and rose colored away shirt by adidas. An annual award presented by Subside Sports which had previously been won by Internazionale , Juventus and the Belgium national team . It was Ajax first time winning the award.  , On 7 November 2014 it was announced that Ajax had agreed to 4,5 year contract worth €8 million annually with Dutch cable operating company Ziggo as the new shirt sponsor for the club.  Having extended their contract with AEGON for half a season until December, the club featured Fonds Gehandicaptensport , a charitable fund for handicapped sports on its away shirts for a six-month period before transitioning to Ziggo in 2015.  , Jong Ajax ( formerly more commonly known as Ajax 2 ) is the reserve team of AFC Ajax. The team is composed mostly of professional footballers, who are often recent graduates from the highest youth level (Ajax A1) serving their first professional contract as a reserve, or players who are otherwise unable to play in the first team.  , Since 1992 Jong Ajax have competed in the Beloften Eredivisie , competing against other reserve teams such as Jong PSV , Jong FC Groningen or Jong AZ . They have won the Beloften Eredivisie title a record eight times, as well as the KNVB Reserve Cup three times, making them the most successful reserve squad in the Netherlands. By winning the Beloften Eredivisie title, Jong Ajax were able to qualify for the actual KNVB Cup , even advancing to the semi-finals on three occasions. Their best result in the Dutch Cup was under manager Jan Olde Riekerink in 2001-02, when a semi-final loss to FC Utrecht in a Penalty shoot-out after extra time, which saw Utrecht advance, and thus preventing an Ajax vs. Jong Ajax Dutch Cup final.  , The 2013–14 season marked the Jupiler League debut of the AFC Ajax reserves' squad Jong Ajax .  Previously playing in the Beloften Eredivisie (a separate league for reserve teams, not included in the Dutch professional or amateur league structure) players were allowed to move around freely between the reserve team and the first team during the season.  This is no longer the case as Jong Ajax now registers and fields a separate squad from that of Ajax first team for the Eerste Divisie , the second tier of professional football in the Netherlands. Their home matches are played at Sportpark De Toekomst , except for the occasional match in the Amsterdam Arena . Now regarded a semi-professional team in their own respect, the only period in which players are able to move between squads are during the transfer windows, unless the player has made less than 15 appearances for the first team, then he is still eligible to appear in both first team and second team matches during the season.  Furthermore the team is not eligible for promotion to the Eredivisie or to participate in the KNVB Cup . Jong Ajax were joined in the Eerste Divisie by Jong Twente and Jong PSV , reserve teams who have also moved from the Beloften Eredivisie to the Eerste Divisie, in place of VV Katwijk , SC Veendam and AGOVV Apeldoorn , increasing the total amount of teams in the Jupiler League from 18 to 20.  , Ajax reserve squad Jong Ajax left the Beloften Eredivisie in 2013, having held a 21-year tenure in the reserves league, having also won the league title a record eight times. (1994, 1996, 1998, 2001, 2002, 2004, 2005, 2009)  , AFC Ajax Amateurs , better known as Ajax Zaterdag is a Dutch amateur football club founded 18 March 1900. It is the amateur team of the professional club AFC Ajax, who play their home matches at the Sportpark De Toekomst training grounds to a capacity of 5,000. The team was promoted from the Eerste Klasse to the Hoofdklasse ahead of the 2011–12 season, the league in which they are currently competing. The team has won the Eerste Klasse title twice, as well as the * KNVB District Cup West I on two occasions as well.  , Furthermore, Ajax Zaterdag have also managed to qualify for the KNVB Cup on their own accord on three occasions, namely in 2004, 2005 and in 2008, even advancing to the second round before bowing out to Vitesse on 24 September 2008 during their last appearance in the cup tournament. , AFC Ajax Vrouwen ( English: AFC Ajax Women ) are the women's team of AFC Ajax, competing in the BeNe League , the highest level of professional football in Belgium and the Netherlands . Founded on 18 May 2012, the women's team saw Ajax attracting many of the Netherlands top talents, with International players such as Anouk Hoogendijk , Daphne Koster and Petra Hogewoning joining the Amstedam club on its maiden season in women's professional football.  The team won their first piece of silverware when the defeated PSV/FC Eindhoven 2–1 in the final of the KNVB Women's Cup . , Ajax HVA (1922–1972) was the baseball team of AFC Ajax founded in 1922, and competing as founding members of the Honkbal Hoofdklasse , the top flight of professional baseball in the Netherlands.  Ajax won the national baseball title a total of four times (1924, 1928, 1942, 1948) before the club opted to no longer field a baseball team, and to focus solely on football in 1972.  Ajax spent a total of 50 years at the top flight of Baseball in the Netherlands from 1922 to 1972. The dissolution of Ajax baseball club resulted in the players finding a new sponsor in a mustard manufacturing company called Luycks, while merging with the Diemen Giants to become the Luycks Giants, thus replacing both former clubs.  , The following clubs are currently affiliated with AFC Ajax: , The following clubs were affiliated with AFC Ajax in the past: , As one of the traditional big three clubs in the Netherlands , Ajax have amassed a number of intense rivalries over the years. Listed below are the most significant of the rivalries involving Ajax Amsterdam. , Feyenoord from Rotterdam are Ajax's arch rivals. Every year both clubs play the " De Klassieker " ("The Classic"), a match between the teams from the two largest cities of the Netherlands.  During the seventies, Ajax and Feyenoord were the only two clubs in the Netherlands who were able to clinch national titles, as well as achieve continental and even global success.  A meeting between the two clubs became the measure for who was truly the best club in the Netherlands. The Klassieker is the most famous of all the rivalries in the Netherlands and the matches are always sold out.  The fixture is seen in the public eye as " The graceful and elegant football of Ajax, against the indomitable fighting spirit of Feyenoord ". The confidence of the Capital versus the Blue collar mentality of Rotterdam .  Matches are known for their tension and violence, both on and off the pitch. Over the years several violent incidents have taken place involving rival supporters, leading to the current prohibition of away-supporters in both stadiums.  The lowest point was reached on 23 March 1997, when supporters of both clubs meet on a field near Beverwijk , where Ajax-supporter Carlo Picornie was fatally injured, the incident is commonly referred to as the " Battle of Beverwijk ".  , PSV are also a rival of Ajax, but in terms of tension and rivalry, these matches are not as loaded as the duels with Feyenoord. The rivalry has existed for some time with PSV and stems from various causes, such as the different interpretations of whether current national and international successes of both clubs correlates and the supposed opposition between the Randstad and the province. The matches between these two teams is commonly referred to as "De Topper" ("The Topper"), and involves the two most trophy-laden sides in Dutch football and is essentially a clash of two competing schools of thought in Dutch football. Historically PSV compete with a workmanlike ethic, preferring a more robust 4-3-1-2 or 4-2-3-1, typically shunning the seductive 4-3-3 approach favoured in Amsterdam. While Rinus Michels and Johan Cruijff helped to innovate Total Football in the sixties and seventies, a different philosophy was honed in Eindhoven by Kees Rijvers and Guus Hiddink in the late seventies and eighties.  This in turn has created one of the more philosophical rivalries in football, an ideological battleground, which is gradually becoming as heated and intense as the matches Ajax and Feyenoord partake in.  , Aside from Feyenoord and PSV, Ajax have several other rivalries, although in most cases the sentiment is mostly felt by the opposition and is more directed towards Ajax, with one of them being FC Utrecht .  Although the rivalry is more felt on the Utrecht side then with Ajax, matchups between the two sides are often quite intense.  Both teams have fanatic supporters, and clashes off the pitch are more often the rule than the exception. The same goes for ADO Den Haag , with both supporter-groups often getting in conflicts, when ADO-Hooligans set fire to the Supporters home of Ajax, and Ajax-Hooligans subsequently broke into the Supporters home of ADO tensions between the two clubs rose. In 2006 Supporters from both clubs were banned from attending away matches for five years, due to frequent violent outbreaks and clashes.  , Further teams who share a rivalry with Ajax include FC Twente , FC Groningen and AZ . Although the latter are often regarded by Ajax-supporters as the club's little brother.  Being from nearby Alkmaar , and with both clubs sharing the same Province , match-ups between the two sides are commonly known as the "De Noord-Hollandse Derby" ("North Holland Derby") and are often very competitive, intense and loaded fixtures.  , Past rivalries include local Amsterdam derbies between Ajax and clubs such as Blauw-Wit , DWS and De Volewijckers (who later merged to become FC Amsterdam in 1972).  The tension between the local sides lessened however, as the division of the clubs through playing in different leagues over time became greater. Years of not competing in the same league resulted in less frequent match-ups, until tensions finally settled between the Amsterdam clubs.  The last Amsterdam derby to take place in an official league match was when Ajax defeated FC Amsterdam 5-1, on 19 March 1978.  , Ajax are known for having fanatic core supporter-groups, of which F-Side and VAK410 are the most famous. F-Side were founded on 3 October 1976, and are situated right behind the goal In the Amsterdam ArenA , on the southern end of the stadium in rows 125–129. Their name is derived from the group's former location on the F-side of the old De Meer Stadion .  The F-side supporters are responsible for a big part of the atmosphere in the stadium, but are also known for rioting during and after matches. If in any match Ajax should win the coin toss, the second half of the match Ajax always play towards the south-end of the stadium.  VAK410 (English: Row 410) were founded in 2001 and are situated in the Zuidhoek ( South corner ) of the stadium on the upper ring in rows 424–425. The group was originally situated on the North-West side of the stadium in row 410, from where it derives its name, until relocating to their current place in the stands in 2008.  Members of VAK410 are known to perform various stunts, which include massive banners, to enhance the atmosphere in the stadium. Neither F-Side or VAK410 have seats in their sections of the stadium, and both groups stand for the duration of the match.  , Through the official Football Top 20 of Dutch sports research group SPORT+MARKT it was revealed in 2010 that Ajax had approximately 7,1 million supporters throughout Europe.  Slightly more than rivals Feyenoord and PSV (each 1,6 and 1,3 million, respectively), which put Ajax in 15th place for most supporters in all of Europe. The study also revealed that approximately 39% of the Netherlands were Ajax supporters.  Not only does Ajax have a lot of supporters, but several fans attend their matches in European competition, with an average attendance of 48.677 spectators for every International match Ajax played, putting the team at 12th place in Europe for highest attendance, ahead of big name clubs such as Milan , Manchester City or Chelsea . It is noteworthy that not all stadiums share the capacity of the Amsterdam Arena.  , The Supporters Club Ajax ( Dutch : Supportersvereniging Ajax ) is officially the largest Supporters club in the Netherlands with 94,000 members.  Founded on 7 May 1992, the supporters club organize big monthly events throughout the Netherlands, and particularly around the official Ajax Open Training Day, which attracts thousands of supporters each year.  Furthermore the Supporters group is responsible for the Ajax Life website, as well as the fanzine which is issued 20 times a year.  In 2006, the AFCA Supportersclub was introduced as the club's second official supporters' association, through the merger of the Onafhankelijke Fanclub Ajax (OFA) and the Ajax Supporters Delegatie (ASD).  The AFCA Supportersclub has a reported 42,000 members, as well as a former member on the Board of Administration of Ajax, in Ronald Pieloor.  , This graph displays the average attendance for home matches of Ajax from 1988–2012, whereby the difference in capacity of the De Meer Stadion and the Amsterdam ArenA (est. 1996) is clearly visible. , Historically, Ajax was popularly seen as having "Jewish roots". Although not an official Jewish club like the city's WV-HEDW , Ajax has had a Jewish image since the 1930s when the home stadium was located next to a Jewish neighbourhood of Amsterdam-Oost and opponents saw many supporters walking through the Nieuwmarkt/Waterloopleinbuurt (de Jodenhoek) to get to the stadium.  The city of Amsterdam was historically referred to as a Mokum city, Mokum (מקום) being the Yiddish word for "place" or "safe haven",  and as anti-Semitic chants and name calling developed and intensified at the old De Meer Stadion from frustrated supporters of opposing clubs, Ajax fans (few of whom are actually Jewish  ) responded by embracing Ajax's "Jewish" identity: calling themselves "super Jews", chanting "Jews, Jews" ("Joden, Joden") at games, and adopting Jewish symbols such as the Star of David and the Israeli flag .   , This Jewish imagery eventually became a central part of Ajax fans' culture.  At one point ringtones of " Hava Nagila ", a Hebrew folk song , could be downloaded from the club's official website.  Beginning in the 1980s, fans of Ajax's rivals escalated their antisemitic rhetoric, chanting slogans like " Hamas , Hamas/Jews to the gas " ("Hamas, hamas, joden aan het gas"), hissing to imitate the flow of gas, giving Nazi salutes , etc.   The eventual result was that many (genuinely) Jewish Ajax fans stopped going to games.  , In the 2000s the club began trying to persuade fans to drop their Jewish image.  In 2013 a documentary titled Superjews was released by NTR and Viewpoint Productions which premiered at the International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam (IDFA). The film was directed by Nirit Peled, an Israeli living in Amsterdam, and an independent film maker who offers a very personal view into the game, the lore of Ajax and its relation to Judaism from both the supporters as well as from a Jewish perspective.  , As of 25 June 2015. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , The players below are part of the AFC Ajax Hall of Fame .  , 1910–1920 , 1920–1930 , 1930–1940 , 1940–1950 , 1950–1960 , 1960–1970 , 1960–1970 (continued) , 1970–1980 , 1980–1990 , 1990–2000 , 2000–2010 , , Ajax have won numerous friendly tournaments, unsanctioned by UEFA or FIFA, including the Amsterdam Tournament , Bruges Matins Trophy , Trofeo Santiago Bernabéu , Eusébio Cup , Ted Bates Trophy , Jalkapalloturnaus and Chippie Polar Cup . ( For a complete list, see main article ) , Ajax have a total of 45 honorary club members, from people who have been invested within the club's administrative engagements, to committed players who have excelled in the athletic department. Of those 45 members 38 have since deceased. Seven members still remain, having been reduced from eight members after Piet Keizer denounced his membership.  , The remaining 38 honorary members who have since died:  , Below is a table with Ajax's domestic results since the introduction of the Eredivisie in 1956. , The Club van 100 is the official list of Football players who have appeared in one hundred or more official matches for AFC Ajax. The club currently has a total of 150 members with Daley Blind being the latest addition.  The record for league appearances is held by Mr. Ajax himself Sjaak Swart , who appeared in 463 league matches for Ajax 1.  There is a beneficiary team called Lucky Ajax, which was initiated by Sjaak Swart. Lucky Ajax participate in at least one match a year, usually in the name of charity, and commonly at football ceremonies to bid farewell to retiring players. One of the prerequisites for playing on Lucky Ajax, which is invitational only, is that you are a member of the Club van 100, having made at least 100 official match appearances for Ajax Amsterdam in the first team of the club.  , Lucky Ajax are a beneficiary team that was initiated by Sjaak Swart in the seventies, competing in at least one match a year, usually in the name of charity and/or to bid farewell to retiring former Ajax players. The team is made up of various members of the Club van 100 of Ajax who will come out of retirement for this match to face the Ajax squad that is current of that year.  Past participants have included Barry Hulshoff , Sonny Silooy , Simon Tahamata , Ronald Koeman , Tscheu La Ling , Gerrie Mühren , John van 't Schip , Brian Roy , Stanley Menzo , Peter van Vossen and Fred Grim .  The name Lucky Ajax is derived from the famous " Lucky Ajax " nickname from how people used to refer to the club when Ajax would either win a match by chance, by a decision of a referee, or by coincidence such as was said to be the case during the infamous Mistwedstrijd (Fog Match).  , As of the 2007–08 season , no player could wear the number 14 shirt at Ajax, after the club decided to retire the shirt out of respect for Johan Cruyff,  "the legendary number fourteen".  Cruyff himself laughed off the tribute saying the club had to let its best player play with number 14.  Spanish midfielder Roger was the last player to wear the number. Marvin Zeegelaar wore the shirt number In preparation for the 2011–12 season in one preseason match, while Aras Özbiliz wore the number 14 shirt in one preseason match ahead of the 2011–12 season as well. The club stated that this was in fact not done in error.  , List of players to wear the number 14 shirt since Johan Cruyff's departure.  , From 1983–1997 reserves no longer received permanent shirt numbers. , Established in 1975 as the Amsterdam 700 Tournament to celebrate 700 years of history in the city.  The tournament was hosted annually each summer by Ajax until 1992, when the last edition of the original tournament was played. It returned in 1999 with the backing of the International Event Partnership (IEP).  Four teams participate in the competition, played in a league format since 1986.  Since its return,  the tournament has used an unusual point scoring system. As with most league competitions, three points are awarded for a win, one for a draw, and none for a loss. However, an additional point is awarded for each goal scored.  The system is designed to reward teams that adopt a more attacking style of play.  Each entrant plays two matches, with the winner being the club that finishes at the top of the table.  The original competition was held at De Meer , Ajax's home between 1934 and 1996.  The Amsterdam Arena has played host to the event since its return until the last edition was played in 2009. Ajax is the most successful team of the tournament, having won it a record 10 times, while S.L. Benfica from Portugal were the last team to win the tournament in 2009. , Established in 2005, the Copa Amsterdam is an international friendly football tournament for Under-19 youth teams, that is organized by Ajax and the Amsterdam city council , which takes place at the Olympic Stadium as part of the annual Amsterdam Sports Weekend, a citywide sponsored initiative to promote 'sports and recreation' within the city of Amsterdam.  Each Summer the city of Amsterdam and Ajax invite U-19 teams from various top clubs from around the World to participate in the tournament. Seven teams are invited and play in the competition every year with the ninth edition of the tournament having occurred in 2013. Over the years, clubs such as Barcelona , Juventus , Chelsea and Real Madrid have had their senior youth teams participate in the tournament.  Cruzeiro from Brazil are the most successful club in the history of the tournament, having won it three times in total, while Ajax Cape Town from South Africa are the current cup holders.  , Established in 2010, the AEGON Future Cup is an international friendly tournament for Under-17 youth teams, which is organized by AFC Ajax and their main sponsor, the insurance company AEGON . The tournament is held each year at the Amsterdam Arena and at the Sportpark De Toekomst , the teams training ground, which also inspired the name of the competition, since De Toekomst in Dutch means The Future.  Every year during the Easter weekend, six U-17 teams are invited to participate in the competition, while the seventh place for the contesters is reserved for the winners of the "Craques Mongeral AEGON Future Cup" in Brazil, the sister competition of the tournament in South America .  Youth teams from top clubs such as Manchester United , Bayern München , Milan and many more have participated in the competition over the years.  Ajax are the most successful club of the tournament, having won the trophy a total of three times, and current cup holders having defeated Liverpool in the final of the latest edition.  , Former clubs: FC Amsterdam · Aristos · DWV · RAP · Sporting Maroc · Sporting Noord · Türkiyemspor · De Volewijckers , 2014   PEC Zwolle , Coordinates : 52°18′51″N 4°56′31″E ﻿ / ﻿ 52.31417°N 4.94194°E ﻿ / 52.31417; 4.94194  F.C. Internazionale Milano ,  commonly referred to as Internazionale ( pronounced  [internatt͡sjoˈnaːle] ) or simply Inter , and colloquially known as Inter Milan outside of Italy,  is a professional Italian football club based in Milan , Lombardy. They are the only club to have spent their entire history in the top flight of Italian football, known as Serie A , which started in 1929–30. , Internazionale have won 30 domestic trophies, including the league 18 times, the Coppa Italia seven times and the Supercoppa Italiana five times. From 2006 to 2010, the club won five successive league titles, equalling the all-time record.  They have won the Champions League three times: two back-to-back in 1964 and 1965 and then another in 2010 , the last completed an unprecedented (for an Italian team) continental treble with the Coppa Italia and the Scudetto.  The club has also won three UEFA Cups , two Intercontinental Cups and one FIFA Club World Cup . , Inter's home games are played at San Siro , also known as the Stadio Giuseppe Meazza . The stadium, which is shared with rivals A.C. Milan , is the largest in Italian football, with a total capacity of 80,018.  A.C Milan are considered one of their biggest rivals, and matches between the two teams are called Derby della Madonnina , which is one of the most followed derbies in football.  As of 2010, Inter is the second-most supported team in Italy,  and the sixth most-supported team in Europe. [ nb 1 ] The club is one of the most valuable in Italian and world football.  It was a founding member of the now-defunct G-14 group of Europe's leading football clubs. , , , The club was founded on 9 March 1908 as Football Club Internazionale , following a "schism" from the Milan Cricket and Football Club (now A.C. Milan ). The name of the club derives from the wish of its founding members to accept foreign players as well as Italians. , " Questa notte splendida darà i colori al nostro stemma: il nero e l'azzurro sullo sfondo d'oro delle stelle. Si chiamerà Internazionale, perchè noi siamo fratelli del mondo. " , " This wonderful night will give us the colours for our crest: black and blue against a backdrop of gold stars. It will be called Internazionale [International] , because we are brothers of the world. " , The club won its very first Scudetto (championship) in 1910 and its second in 1920. The captain and coach of the first Scudetto was Virgilio Fossati , who was killed in World War I . , In 1922 Inter remained in the top league after winning two play-offs. Six years later, during the Fascist era, the club was forced to merge with the Unione Sportiva Milanese and was renamed Società Sportiva Ambrosiana .  They wore white shirts around this time with a red cross emblazoned on it. This shirt design was inspired by the flag and coat of arms of the city of Milan, which in turn derives from the flag of the patron saint of Milan, St. Ambrose, and dates back to the 4th century AD. The new upcoming President Oreste Simonotti decided to change name to Associazione Sportiva Ambrosiana in 1929. However, supporters continued to call the team Inter , and in 1931 new president Pozzani caved to shareholder pressure and changed the name to Associazione Sportiva Ambrosiana-Inter . , Their first Coppa Italia (Italian Cup) was won in 1938–39, led by the great legend Giuseppe Meazza , for whom the San Siro stadium is officially named, and a fifth league championship followed in 1940, despite an injury to Meazza. After the end of World War II the club re-emerged under their original name. Following the war, Inter won its sixth championship in 1953 and the seventh in 1954. , In 1960, manager Helenio Herrera joined Internazionale from Barcelona , bringing with him his midfield general Luis Suárez , who won the European Footballer of the Year in the same year for his role in Barcelona's La Liga / Fairs Cup double. He would transform Internazionale into one of the greatest teams in Europe. He modified a 5–3–2 tactic known as the Verrou (door bolt) to include larger flexibility for counterattacks. The Catenaccio system was invented by an Austrian coach named Karl Rappan . Rappan's original system was implemented with 4 fixed defenders, playing a strict man-to-man marking system, plus a playmaker in the middle of the field who plays the ball together with two midfield wings. Herrera would modify it by adding a fifth defenders, the sweeper or libero behind the two centre backs . The sweeper or libero who acted as the free man would deal with any attackers who went through the two centre backs . Internazionale finished 3rd in Serie A his first season, 2nd the next year and first in his 3rd season. And then followed a back-to-back European Cup victory in 1964 and 1965. Herrera earned the title ll Mago, which meant the magician. The code of Herrera 's team was the fullbacks Tarcisio Burgnich and Giacinto Facchetti , Armando Picchi the sweeper, Suárez the playmaker, Jair the winger, Mario Corso the left midfielder, and Sandro Mazzola who played the inside-right. , In 1964, Internazionale reached the European Cup Final by beating Borussia Dortmund in the semifinal and FK Partizan in the quarterfinal. In the Final, they met Real Madrid , a team that had reached seven out of the nine finals to date. Mazzola scored two goals in a 3–1 victory, and then the team won the Intercontinental Cup against Independiente . A year later, Inter repeated the feat by beating two-time winner S.L. Benfica in the final held at home, from a Jair goal, and then again beat Independiente in the Intercontinental Cup. , In 1967, with Jair gone and Suárez injured, Inter lost the European Cup Final 2–1 to Celtic . The same year, the club changed its name to Football Club Internazionale Milano . , Following the golden era of the 1960s, Inter managed to win their eleventh league title in 1971 and their twelfth in 1980. Inter were defeated for the second time in five years in the final of the European Cup, going down 0–2 to Johan Cruijff 's Ajax Amsterdam in 1972. During the 1970s and the 1980s, Inter also added two to its Coppa Italia tally, in 1977–78 and 1981–82. , Led by the German duo of Andreas Brehme and Lothar Matthäus , and Argentine Ramón Díaz , Inter captured the 1989 Serie A championship. Fellow German Jürgen Klinsmann and the Italian Supercup were added the following season but to little avail as Inter were unable to defend their title. , The 1990s was a period of disappointment. While their great rivals, Milan and Juventus , were achieving success both domestically and in Europe, Inter were left behind, with repeated mediocre results in the domestic league standings, their worst coming in 1993–94 when they finished just 1-point out of the relegation zone. Nevertheless, they achieved some European success with 3 UEFA Cup victories in 1991, 1994 and 1998. , With Massimo Moratti 's takeover from Ernesto Pellegrini in 1995, Inter twice broke the world record transfer fee in this period (£19.5 million for Ronaldo from Barcelona in 1997 and £31 million for Christian Vieri from Lazio two years later). However, the 1990s remained a decade of disappointment, and is the only decade in Inter's history in which they did not win a single Italian Serie A championship. For Inter fans it was difficult to find who in particular was to blame for the troubled times and this led to some icy relations between them and the president, the managers and even some individual players. , Moratti later became a target of the fans, especially when he sacked the much-loved coach Luigi Simoni after only a few games into the 1998–99 season, after having just received Italian manager of the year award 1998 the day before being dismissed. That season Inter failed to qualify for any European competition for the first time in almost 10 years, finishing in eighth place. , The following season, Moratti appointed former Juventus manager Marcello Lippi , and signed players such as Angelo Peruzzi and Laurent Blanc together with other former Juventus players Vieri and Vladimir Jugović . The team came close to their first domestic success since 1989 when they reached the Coppa Italia final only to be defeated by Lazio. , The following season another disaster struck. Inter impressed in the Supercoppa Italiana match against Lazio and took the lead through new signing Robbie Keane and Hakan Şükür —however, they lost 4–3. They were eliminated in the preliminary round of the Champions League by Swedish club Helsingborgs IF , Álvaro Recoba missing a crucial late penalty. Lippi was sacked after only a single game of the new season following Inter's first ever Serie A defeat to Reggina . Marco Tardelli , chosen to replace Lippi, failed to improve results, and is remembered by Inter fans as the manager that lost 6–0 the city derby to Milan in the 2000–01 season. Other members of the Inter "family" during this period that suffered were the likes of Vieri and Fabio Cannavaro , both of whom had their restaurants in Milan vandalised after defeats against Milan. , In 2002, not only did Inter manage to make it to the UEFA Cup semi-finals, they were also only 45 minutes away from capturing the Scudetto, when they needed to maintain a one-goal advantage away at over Lazio. Inter were 2–1 up after only 24 minutes. Lazio equalised during first half injury time and then scored two more goals in the second half to clinch victory that eventually saw Juventus win the championship. The next season, Inter finished as league runners-up and also managed to make it to the 2002–03 Champions League semi-finals against Milan, losing on the away goals rule . , On 1 July 2004, Inter appointed former Lazio boss Roberto Mancini as new head coach. In his first season the team collected 72 points from 18 wins, 18 draws and only 2 losses, as well as winning the Coppa Italia and later the Supercoppa Italiana . On 11 May 2006, Inter retained their Coppa Italia trophy by once again, defeating Roma with a 4–1 aggregate victory (a 1–1 scoreline in Rome and a 3–1 win at the San Siro ). , Inter were awarded the 2005–06 Serie A championship after points were stripped from Juventus and Milan due to the match fixing scandal that year . During the following season, Inter went on a record-breaking run of 17 consecutive victories in Serie A, starting on 25 September 2006 with a 4–1 home victory over Livorno , and ending on 28 February 2007, after a 1–1 draw at home to Udinese . On 22 April 2007 Inter won their second consecutive scudetto—and first on the field since 1989—when they defeated Siena 2–1 at Stadio Artemio Franchi . Italian World Cup -winning defender Marco Materazzi scored both goals.  , Inter started the 2007–08 season with the goal of winning both Serie A and UEFA Champions League. The team started well in the league, topping the table from the first round of matches, and also managed to qualify for the Champions League knockout stage; however, a late collapse leading to a 2–0 defeat with 10 men away to Liverpool on 19 February in the Champions League threw into question manager Roberto Mancini 's future at Inter, and domestic form took a sharp turn of fortune with the team failing to win in the three following Serie A games. After being eliminated by Liverpool in the Champions League, Mancini then announced his intention to leave his job, only to change his mind the following day. On the final day of the 2007–08 Serie A season, Inter played Parma away, and two goals from Zlatan Ibrahimović sealed their 3rd consecutive championship. Mancini was sacked soon after due to his previous declaration of leaving the club.  , On 2 June 2008, Inter appointed former Porto and Chelsea boss José Mourinho as new head coach.  In his first season as Inter head coach, the Nerazzurri won an Italian Super Cup and a fourth consecutive title , being, however, also eliminated from the Champions League in the first knockout round for a third consecutive time, losing to Manchester United . In winning the league title for the fourth consecutive time, Inter joined Torino and Juventus as the only teams to do this and the first to accomplish this feat in the last 60 years. , Inter enjoyed more luck in the 2009–10 Champions League , defeating incumbent champions Barcelona in the semi-final, and then defeating Bayern Munich 2–0 in the final with two goals from Diego Milito .  Inter also won the 2009–10 Serie A title by two points over Roma, and the 2010 Coppa Italia by defeating the same side 1–0 in the final.  This made Inter the first Italian team to win The Treble , but Mourinho left for Real Madrid at the end of the season,  to be replaced by Rafael Benítez . , On 21 August 2010, Inter defeated Roma 3–1 and won the 2010 Supercoppa Italiana , the fourth trophy of the year. In December 2010, they claimed the FIFA Club World Cup for the first time after a 3–0 win against TP Mazembe in the final.  Internazionale completed the Quintuple , becoming the fourth team in the world after Liverpool in 2001, Al-Ahly in 2006 and Barcelona in 2009. However, after this win, on 23 December 2010, due to his poor performance in Serie A and separated by 13 points from the leader Milan (although Inter played two games less, because of the FIFA Club World Cup appointment), the team announced Benítez's departure.  He was replaced by Leonardo the following day.  , Leonardo started with 30 points from 12 games, with an average of 2.5 points per game, better than his predecessors Benítez and Mourinho. On 6 March 2011 Leonardo set a new Italian Serie A record by collecting 33 points in 13 games, the previous record was 32 points in 13 games made by Fabio Capello in the 2004–05 season. He took the club to the quarter finals of the Champions League before losing against Schalke 04 , and also won the Coppa Italia . He resigned at the end of the season and was followed by not so successful new managers Gian Piero Gasperini , Claudio Ranieri , and Andrea Stramaccioni . , On 1 August 2012, Moratti sold a minority interests of Inter Milan to a Chinese consortium led by Kenneth Huang .  On the same day Inter announced an agreement was formed with China Railway Construction Corporation Limited for a new stadium project.  On 30 June 2013, Moratti's Internazionale Holding S.r.l. hold 98.2% shares of F.C. Internazionale Milano S.p.A. which the deal with Chinese apparently collapsed.  , On 15 October 2013, an Indonesian consortium (International Sports Capital HK Ltd.) led by Erick Thohir , Handy Soetedjo and Rosan Roeslani, signed an agreement to acquire 70% of Inter Milan shares from Internazionale Holding S.r.l. by contributing the capital increases of Inter Milan triggered by net loss of €79,881,808.    Immediate after the deal, Moratti's Internazionale Holding S.r.l. still hold 29.5% shares of F.C. Internazionale Milano S.p.A..  Thohir also co-owned D.C. United , On 2 December 2013 Inter and DC United formally became sister club.  , One of the founders of Inter, a painter named Giorgio Muggiani, was responsible for the design of the first Inter logo in 1908. The first design incorporated the letters 'FCIM' in the center of a series of circles that formed the badge of the club. The basic elements of the design have remained constant even as finer details have been modified over the years. Starting at the 1999–00 season , the original club crest was reduced in size, to give place for the addition of the club's name and foundation year at the upper and lower part of the logo respectively. , In 2007, the logo was returned to the pre-1999/2000 era. It was given a more modern look with smaller Scudetto star and lighter color scheme. This version was used until July 2014, when the club decided to undertake a rebranding.  The most significant difference between the current and the previous logo is the omission of the star from other media except match kits.  , Since its founding in 1908, Inter have worn black and blue stripes. It is rumoured that black was chosen to represent night and blue was chosen to represent the sky.  Aside from a short period during World War II, Inter continued to wear the black and blue stripes, earning them the nickname Nerazzurri .  For a period of time, however, Inter was forced to abandon their black and blue uniforms. In 1928, Inter's name and philosophy made the ruling Fascist Party uneasy. As a result, during the same year the 20-year-old club was merged with Unione Sportiva Milanese . The new club was named Società Sportiva Ambrosiana after the patron saint of Milan.  The flag of Milan (the red cross on white background) replaced the traditional black and blue.  After World War II when the Fascists had fallen from power the club reverted to their original name and colours. In 2008, Inter celebrated their centenary with a red cross on their away shirt. The cross is reminiscent of the flag of their city, and they continue to use the pattern on their third kit. , Animals are often used to represent football clubs in Italy, the grass snake , called Il biscione or Serpente representing Inter. The snake is an important symbol for the city of Milan, appearing often in Milanese heraldry as a coiled viper with a man in its jaws. The symbol is famous for its presence on the coat of arms of the House of Sforza (who ruled over Italy from Milan during the Renaissance period), the city of Milan, the historical Duchy of Milan (a 400-year state of the Holy Roman Empire ), and Insubria (a historical region the city of Milan falls within). For the 2010–11 season Inter's away kit featured the serpent. , The team's stadium is the 80,018 seat San Siro , officially known as Stadio Giuseppe Meazza after the former player who represented both Milan and Inter. The more commonly used name, San Siro , is the name of the district where it's located. San Siro has been the home of Milan since 1926, when it was privately built by funding from Milan's president at the time, Piero Pirelli. Construction was performed by 120 workers, and took 13 and a half months to complete. The stadium was owned by the club until it was sold to the city council in 1935, and since 1947 it has been shared with Internazionale, when they were accepted as joint tenant. , The first game played at the stadium was on 19 September 1926, when Inter beat Milan 6–3 in a friendly match. Milan played its first league game in San Siro on 19 September 1926, losing 1–2 to Sampierdarenese . From an initial capacity of 35,000 spectators, the stadium has undergone several major renovations, most recently in preparation for the 1990 FIFA World Cup when its capacity was set to 85,700, all covered with a polycarbonate roof. In the summer of 2008, its capacity was reduced to 80,018 to meet the new standards set by UEFA . , Based on the English model for stadiums, San Siro is specifically designed for football matches, as opposed to many multi-purpose stadiums used in Serie A. It is therefore renowned in Italy for its fantastic atmosphere during matches, thanks to the closeness of the stands to the pitch. The frequent use of flares by supporters contributes to the atmosphere but the practice has occasionally caused problems. , Inter is one of the most supported clubs in Italy, according to an August 2007 research by Italian newspaper La Repubblica .  Historically, the largest section of Inter fans from the city of Milan were the middle-class bourgeoisie Milanese, while Milan fans were typically working-class .  , The traditional ultras group of Inter is Boys San ; they hold a significant place in the history of the ultras scene in general due to the fact that they are one of the oldest, being founded in 1969. Politically, the ultras of Inter are usually considered right-wing and they have good relationships with the Lazio ultras. As well as the main group of Boys San , there are four more significant groups: Viking , Irriducibili , Ultras , and Brianza Alcoolica . , Inter's most vocal fans are known to gather in the Curva Nord, or north curve of the Giuseppe Meazza stadium. This longstanding tradition has led to the Curva Nord being synonymous with the club's most die-hard supporters, who unfurl banners and wave flags in support of their team. , Inter have several rivalries, two of which are highly significant in Italian football ; firstly, they participate in the intra city Derby della Madonnina with Milan; the rivalry has existed ever since Inter splintered off from Milan in 1908.  The name of the derby refers to the Blessed Virgin Mary , whose statue atop the Milan Cathedral is one of the city's main attractions. The match usually creates a lively atmosphere, with numerous (often humorous or offensive) banners unfolded before the match. Flares are commonly present, but they also led to the abandonment of the second leg of the 2004–05 Champions League quarter-final matchup between Milan and Inter on 12 April after a flare thrown from the crowd by an Inter supporter struck Milan keeper Dida on the shoulder.  , The other most significant rivalry is with Juventus; the two participate in the Derby d'Italia . Up until the 2006 Italian football scandal , which saw Juventus relegated, the two were the only Italian clubs to have never played below Serie A . In recent years, post-Calciopoli, Inter have developed a rivalry with Roma, having finished runners-up to Inter in all but one of Inter's five Scudetto winning seasons between 2005 and 2010. The two sides have also contested in 5 Coppa Italia finals and four Supercoppa Italiana finals since 2006. Other clubs, such as Atalanta and Napoli , are also considered amongst their rivals.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , The following players are on loan at Prato in order to gain first-team experience, as per the agreement between both teams:  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , 3 – Giacinto Facchetti , left back , 1960–1978 (posthumous honour) . The number was retired on 8 September 2006. The last player to wear the shirt was Argentinian center back Nicolás Burdisso , who took on the number 16 shirt for the rest of the season.  , 4 – Javier Zanetti , defensive midfielder , played 858 games for Inter between 1995 and his retirement in the summer of 2014. Club president Erick Thohir confirmed that Zanetti's number 4 was to be retired out of respect.   , Below is a list of Inter presidents from 1908 until the present day.  , Below is a list of Inter coaches from 1909 until the present day.  , Internazionale have won 30 domestic trophies, including the league eighteen times, the Coppa Italia seven and the Supercoppa Italiana five. From 2006 to 2010 the club won five successive league titles, equalling the all-time record.  They have won the Champions League three times: two back-to-back in 1964 and 1965 and then another in 2010 ; the last completed an unprecedented Italian treble with the Coppa Italia and the Scudetto.  The club has also won three UEFA Cups , two Intercontinental Cups and one FIFA Club World Cup . , Javier Zanetti holds the records for both total appearances and Serie A appearances for Inter, with 838 official games played in total and 600 in Serie A (as of 14 March 2013).  , Giuseppe Meazza is Inter's all-time top goalscorer, scoring 284 goals for the club in 408 games.  He is followed in second place by Alessandro Altobelli with 209 goals in 466 games, and Roberto Boninsegna in third place, who has scored 171 goals in 281 games. , Helenio Herrera had the longest reign as Internazionale coach, with nine years (eight consecutive) in charge, and is the most successful coach in Inter history with three Scudetti , two European Cups, and two Intercontinental Cup wins. José Mourinho , who was appointed on 2 June 2008, and completed his first season in Italy by winning the Serie A league title and the Supercoppa Italiana, in the second season he won the first " treble " in Italian history, the Serie A league title , Coppa Italia and the UEFA Champions League in the season 2009–2010. , According to the Deloitte Football Money League , Inter recorded revenues of €196.5 million (£167.4 million) in the 2008–09 season to rank in 9th place, one behind Juventus in 8th place, and ahead of city rivals Milan in 10th place.  The club beat their previous season earnings of €172.9 million (£136.9 million),  and for the first time since The Football Money League's inception, Inter overtook Milan in the rankings. In 2009–10 season, Inter remained in 9th, suppressed Juventus (10th) but Milan re-took the leading role as the 7th. Inter became the 8th in 2010–11, but still behind Milan for one place. Since 2011, Inter fell to 11th in 2011–12, 15th in 2012–13 and 17th in 2013–14 season. , In 2008–09 season, Revenue percentages were divided up between matchday (14%, €28.2 million), broadcasting (59%, €115.7 million, +7%, +€8 million) and commercial (27%, €52.6 million, +43%). Kit sponsors Nike and Pirelli contributed €18.1 million and €9.3 million respectively to commercial revenues, while broadcasting revenues were boosted €1.6 million (6%) by Champions League distribution. , For the 2010–11 season, Serie A clubs started negotiating club TV rights collectively rather than individually. This is predicted to result in lower broadcasting revenues for Inter, with smaller clubs gaining from the loss. , Deloitte expressed the idea that issues in Italian football, particularly matchday revenue issues were holding Inter back compared to other European giants, and developing their own stadia would result in Serie A clubs being more competitive on the world stage.  , FC Internazionale Milano S.p.A. also has one of the biggest financial "black-holes" among the Italian clubs, which heavily depends on the financial contribution from Massimo Moratti . In 2006–07 had a net loss of €206 million  (€112 million extraordinary basis, due to the change in accounting standard for amortisation of transfer fee ( Articolo 18-bis Legge 91/1981 ), covered by proposed capital increases of €99 million), 2007–08 a net loss of €148,271,266,  2008–09 a net loss of €154,423,469 (covered by a proposed capital increase of €70 million,  later increased to €90 million (covered by a proposed capital increase of €40 million and €30 million during the 2011–12 season)  It was contributed by the sales of Ibrahimović , the treble and the release clause of coach José Mourinho . The 2010–11 result was a net loss of €86,813,786,  which already included an extraordinary income of €13 million from RAI. Another re-capitalisation of €40 million was proposed, to cover the negative equity of €24,179,237 on 30 June 2011.   Manchester United Football Club are a professional football club based in Old Trafford, Greater Manchester , England, who play in the Premier League . Founded as Newton Heath LYR Football Club in 1878, the club changed its name to Manchester United in 1902 and moved to Old Trafford in 1910. , Manchester United have won 20 league titles , the most of any English club,  11 FA Cups , four League Cups and a record 20 FA Community Shields . The club has also won three European Cups , one UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , one UEFA Super Cup , one Intercontinental Cup and one FIFA Club World Cup . In 1998–99 , the club achieved a treble of the Premier League, the FA Cup and the UEFA Champions League. , The 1958 Munich air disaster claimed the lives of eight players. In 1968, under the management of Matt Busby , Manchester United was the first English football club to win the European Cup. Alex Ferguson won 28 major honours between 1986 and 2013,   when he announced his retirement.  Louis van Gaal was appointed as the club's new manager after Ferguson's successor David Moyes was sacked after only 10 months in charge.  , Manchester United is the second-richest football club in the world for 2013–14 in terms of revenue, with an annual revenue of €518 million, and the world's third most valuable football club in 2014, valued at $2.810 billion.   As of June 2015, it is the world's most valuable football brand, estimated to be worth $1.2 billion.  It is one of the most widely supported football teams in the world.     After being floated on the London Stock Exchange in 1991, the club was purchased by Malcolm Glazer in May 2005 in a deal valuing the club at almost £800 million, after which the company was taken private again.  In August 2012, Manchester United made an initial public offering on the New York Stock Exchange .  , Manchester United was formed in 1878 as Newton Heath LYR Football Club by the Carriage and Wagon department of the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway (LYR) depot at Newton Heath .  The team initially played games against other departments and rail companies, but on 20 November 1880, they competed in their first recorded match; wearing the colours of the railway company – green and gold – they were defeated 6–0 by Bolton Wanderers ' reserve team.  By 1888, the club had become a founding member of The Combination , a regional football league. Following the league's dissolution after only one season, Newton Heath joined the newly formed Football Alliance , which ran for three seasons before being merged with the Football League. This resulted in the club starting the 1892–93 season in the First Division , by which time it had become independent of the rail company and dropped the "LYR" from its name.  After two seasons, the club was relegated to the Second Division .  , In January 1902, with debts of £2,670 – equivalent to £260,000 in 2015 [ nb 1 ] – the club was served with a winding-up order .  Captain Harry Stafford found four local businessmen, including John Henry Davies (who became club president), each willing to invest £500 in return for a direct interest in running the club and who subsequently changed the name;  on 24 April 1902, Manchester United was officially born.  [ nb 2 ] Under Ernest Mangnall , who assumed managerial duties in 1903, the team finished as Second Division runners-up in 1906 and secured promotion to the First Division, which they won in 1908 – the club's first league title. The following season began with victory in the first ever Charity Shield  and ended with the club's first FA Cup title. Manchester United won the First Division for the second time in 1911, but at the end of the following season, Mangnall left the club to join Manchester City .  , In 1922, three years after the resumption of football following the First World War, the club was relegated to the Second Division, where it remained until regaining promotion in 1925. Relegated again in 1931, Manchester United became a yo-yo club , achieving its all-time lowest position of 20th place in the Second Division in 1934. Following the death of principal benefactor John Henry Davies in October 1927, the club's finances deteriorated to the extent that Manchester United would likely have gone bankrupt had it not been for James W. Gibson , who, in December 1931, invested £2,000 and assumed control of the club.  In the 1938–39 season , the last year of football before the Second World War, the club finished 14th in the First Division.  , In October 1945, the impending resumption of football led to the managerial appointment of Matt Busby , who demanded an unprecedented level of control over team selection, player transfers and training sessions.  Busby led the team to second-place league finishes in 1947, 1948 and 1949, and to FA Cup victory in 1948 . In 1952, the club won the First Division, its first league title for 41 years.  With an average age of 22, the media labelled the back-to-back title winning side of 1956 "the Busby Babes", a testament to Busby's faith in his youth players.  In 1957, Manchester United became the first English team to compete in the European Cup, despite objections from The Football League, who had denied Chelsea the same opportunity the previous season.  En route to the semi-final, which they lost to Real Madrid , the team recorded a 10–0 victory over Belgian champions Anderlecht , which remains the club's biggest victory on record.  , The following season, on the way home from a European Cup quarter-final victory against Red Star Belgrade , the aircraft carrying the Manchester United players, officials and journalists crashed while attempting to take off after refuelling in Munich, Germany. The Munich air disaster of 6 February 1958 claimed 23 lives, including those of eight players – Geoff Bent , Roger Byrne , Eddie Colman , Duncan Edwards , Mark Jones , David Pegg , Tommy Taylor and Billy Whelan  – and injured several more.   , Reserve team manager Jimmy Murphy took over as manager while Busby recovered from his injuries and the club's makeshift side reached the FA Cup final , which they lost to Bolton Wanderers . In recognition of the team's tragedy, UEFA invited the club to compete in the 1958–59 European Cup alongside eventual League champions Wolverhampton Wanderers . Despite approval from the FA, the Football League determined that the club should not enter the competition, since it had not qualified.   Busby rebuilt the team through the 1960s by signing players such as Denis Law and Pat Crerand , who combined with the next generation of youth players – including George Best – to win the FA Cup in 1963 . The following season, they finished second in the league, then won the title in 1965 and 1967. In 1968, Manchester United became the first English (and second British) club to win the European Cup, beating Benfica 4–1 in the final  with a team that contained three European Footballers of the Year : Bobby Charlton , Denis Law and George Best.  Matt Busby resigned as manager in 1969 and was replaced by the reserve team coach, former Manchester United player Wilf McGuinness .  , Following an eighth-place finish in the 1969–70 season and a poor start to the 1970–71 season , Busby was persuaded to temporarily resume managerial duties, and McGuinness returned to his position as reserve team coach. In June 1971, Frank O'Farrell was appointed as manager, but lasted less than 18 months before being replaced by Tommy Docherty in December 1972.  Docherty saved Manchester United from relegation that season, only to see them relegated in 1974; by that time the trio of Best, Law, and Charlton had left the club.  The team won promotion at the first attempt and reached the FA Cup final in 1976 , but were beaten by Southampton . They reached the final again in 1977 , beating Liverpool 2–1. Docherty was dismissed shortly afterwards, following the revelation of his affair with the club physiotherapist's wife.   , Dave Sexton replaced Docherty as manager in the summer of 1977. Despite major signings, including Joe Jordan , Gordon McQueen , Gary Bailey , and Ray Wilkins , the team failed to achieve any significant results; they finished in the top two in 1979–80 and lost to Arsenal in the 1979 FA Cup Final . Sexton was dismissed in 1981, even though the team won the last seven games under his direction.  He was replaced by Ron Atkinson , who immediately broke the British record transfer fee to sign Bryan Robson from West Bromwich Albion . Under Atkinson, Manchester United won the FA Cup twice in three years – in 1983 and 1985 . In 1985–86 , after 13 wins and two draws in its first 15 matches, the club was favourite to win the league, but finished in fourth place. The following season, with the club in danger of relegation by November, Atkinson was dismissed.  , Alex Ferguson and his assistant Archie Knox arrived from Aberdeen on the day of Atkinson's dismissal,  and guided the club to an 11th-place finish in the league.  Despite a second-place finish in 1987–88 , the club was back in 11th place the following season.  Reportedly on the verge of being dismissed, victory over Crystal Palace in the 1990 FA Cup Final replay (after a 3–3 draw) saved Ferguson's career.   The following season, Manchester United claimed its first Cup Winners' Cup title and competed in the 1991 UEFA Super Cup , beating European Cup holders Red Star Belgrade 1–0 in the final at Old Trafford. A second consecutive League Cup final appearance followed in 1992, in which the team beat Nottingham Forest 1–0 at Wembley.  In 1993, the club won its first league title since 1967, and a year later, for the first time since 1957, it won a second consecutive title – alongside the FA Cup – to complete the first " Double " in the club's history.  , In the 1998–99 season , Manchester United became the first team to win the Premier League, FA Cup and UEFA Champions League – "The Treble" – in the same season.  Losing 1–0 going into injury time in the 1999 UEFA Champions League Final , Teddy Sheringham and Ole Gunnar Solskjær scored late goals to claim a dramatic victory over Bayern Munich , in what is considered one of the greatest comebacks of all time.  The club also won the Intercontinental Cup after beating Palmeiras 1–0 in Tokyo.  Ferguson was subsequently knighted for his services to football.  , Manchester United won the league again in the 1999–2000 and 2000–01 seasons. The team finished third in 2001–02 , before regaining the title in 2002–03 .  They won the 2003–04 FA Cup , beating Millwall 3–0 in the final at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff .  In the 2005–06 season , Manchester United failed to qualify for the knockout phase of the UEFA Champions League for the first time in over a decade,  but recovered to secure a second-place league finish and victory over Wigan Athletic in the 2006 Football League Cup Final . The club regained the Premier League in the 2006–07 and 2007–08 seasons, and completed the European double by beating Chelsea 6–5 on penalties in the 2008 UEFA Champions League Final in Moscow's Luzhniki Stadium . Ryan Giggs made a record 759th appearance for the club in this game, overtaking previous record holder Bobby Charlton.  In December 2008, the club won the 2008 FIFA Club World Cup and followed this with the 2008–09 Football League Cup , and its third successive Premier League title.   That summer, Cristiano Ronaldo was sold to Real Madrid for a world record £80 million.  In 2010, Manchester United defeated Aston Villa 2–1 at Wembley to retain the League Cup , its first successful defence of a knockout cup competition.  , After finishing as runner-up to Chelsea in the 2009–10 season, United achieved a record 19th league title in 2010–11, securing the championship with a 1–1 away draw against Blackburn Rovers on 14 May 2011.  This was extended to 20 league titles in 2012–13, securing the championship with a 3–0 home win against Aston Villa on 22 April 2013.  , On 8 May 2013, Ferguson announced that he was to retire as manager at the end of the football season, but would remain at the club as a director and club ambassador.   The club announced the next day that Everton manager David Moyes would replace him from 1 July, having signed a six-year contract.    Ryan Giggs took over as interim player-manager 10 months later, on 22 April 2014, when Moyes was sacked after a poor season in which the club failed to defend their Premier League title and failed to qualify for the UEFA Champions League for the first time since 1995–96.  They also failed to qualify for the Europa League, meaning that it was the first time Manchester United hadn't qualified for a European competition since 1990.  On 19 May 2014, it was confirmed that Louis van Gaal would replace Moyes as Manchester United manager on a three-year deal, with Giggs as his assistant.  Malcolm Glazer , the patriarch of the Glazer family that owns the club, died on 28 May 2014.  , The club crest is derived from the Manchester City Council coat of arms , although all that remains of it on the current crest is the ship in full sail.  The devil stems from the club's nickname "The Red Devils"; it was included on club programmes and scarves in the 1960s, and incorporated into the club crest in 1970, although the crest was not included on the chest of the shirt until 1971 (unless the team was playing in a Cup Final).  , A photograph of the Newton Heath team, taken in 1892, is believed to show the players wearing red-and-white quartered jerseys and blue shorts.  Between 1894–96, the players wore distinctive green and gold jerseys  which were replaced in 1896 by white shirts, which were worn with blue shorts.  After the name change in 1902, the club colours were changed to red shirts, white shorts, and black socks, which has become the standard Manchester United home kit.  Very few changes were made to the kit until 1922 when the club adopted white shirts bearing a deep red "V" around the neck, similar to the shirt worn in the 1909 FA Cup Final . They remained part of their home kits until 1927.  For a period in 1934, the cherry and white hooped change shirt became the home colours, but the following season the red shirt was recalled after the club's lowest ever league placing of 20th in the Second Division and the hooped shirt dropped back to being the change.  The black socks were changed to white from 1959 to 1965, where they were replaced with red socks up until 1971, when the club reverted to black. Black shorts and/or white socks are sometimes worn with the home strip, most often in away games, if there is a clash with the opponent's kit. The current home kit is a red shirt with a white buttoned crew collar and cuffs with black and red trim.  , The Manchester United away strip has often been a white shirt, black shorts and white socks, but there have been several exceptions. These include an all-black strip with blue and gold trimmings between 1993 and 1995, the navy blue shirt with silver horizontal pinstripes worn during the 1999–2000 season,  and the 2011–12 away kit, which had a royal blue body and sleeves with hoops made of small midnight navy blue and black stripes, with black shorts and blue socks.  An all-grey away kit worn during the 1995–96 season was dropped after just five games because players claimed to have trouble finding their team-mates against the crowd.  In 2001, to celebrate 100 years as "Manchester United", a reversible white/gold away kit was released, although the actual match day shirts were not reversible.  , The club's third kit is often all-blue, this was most recently the case during the 2014–15 season.  Exceptions include a green-and-gold halved shirt worn between 1992 and 1994, a blue-and-white striped shirt worn during the 1994–95 and 1995–96 seasons and once in 1996–97, an all-black kit worn during the Treble-winning 1998–99 season, and white shirts with black-and-red horizontal pinstripes worn between 2003 and 2005.  Since 2006–07, the third kit has usually been the previous season's away kit, the exceptions being the 2008–09  and 2014–15 seasons. , Newton Heath initially played on a field on North Road , close to the railway yard; the original capacity was about 12,000, but club officials deemed the facilities inadequate for a club hoping to join The Football League.  Some expansion took place in 1887, and in 1891, Newton Heath used its minimal financial reserves to purchase two grandstands, each able to hold 1,000 spectators.  Although attendances were not recorded for many of the earliest matches at North Road, the highest documented attendance was approximately 15,000 for a First Division match against Sunderland on 4 March 1893.  A similar attendance was also recorded for a friendly match against Gorton Villa on 5 September 1889.  , In June 1893, after the club was evicted from North Road by its owners, Manchester Deans and Canons, who felt it was inappropriate for the club to charge an entry fee to the ground, secretary A. H. Albut procured the use of the Bank Street ground in Clayton .  It initially had no stands, by the start of the 1893–94 season , two had been built; one spanning the full length of the pitch on one side and the other behind the goal at the "Bradford end". At the opposite end, the "Clayton end", the ground had been "built up, thousands thus being provided for".  Newton Heath's first league match at Bank Street was played against Burnley on 1 September 1893, when 10,000 people saw Alf Farman score a hat-trick , Newton Heath's only goals in a 3–2 win. The remaining stands were completed for the following league game against Nottingham Forest three weeks later.  In October 1895, before the visit of Manchester City, the club purchased a 2,000-capacity stand from the Broughton Rangers rugby league club, and put up another stand on the "reserved side" (as distinct from the "popular side"). However, weather restricted the attendance for the Manchester City match to just 12,000.  , When the Bank Street ground was temporarily closed by bailiffs in 1902, club captain Harry Stafford raised enough money to pay for the club's next away game at Bristol City and found a temporary ground at Harpurhey for the next reserves game against Padiham.  Following financial investment, new club president John Henry Davies paid £500 for the erection of a new 1,000-seat stand at Bank Street.  Within four years, the stadium had cover on all four sides, as well as the ability to hold approximately 50,000 spectators, some of whom could watch from the viewing gallery atop the Main Stand.  , However, following Manchester United's first league title in 1908 and the FA Cup a year later, it was decided that Bank Street was too restrictive for Davies' ambition;  in February 1909, six weeks before the club's first FA Cup title, Old Trafford was named as the home of Manchester United, following the purchase of land for around £60,000. Architect Archibald Leitch was given a budget of £30,000 for construction; original plans called for seating capacity of 100,000, though budget constraints forced a revision to 77,000. The building was constructed by Messrs Brameld and Smith of Manchester. The stadium's record attendance was registered on 25 March 1939, when an FA Cup semi-final between Wolverhampton Wanderers and Grimsby Town drew 76,962 spectators.  , Bombing in the Second World War destroyed much of the stadium; the central tunnel in the South Stand was all that remained of that quarter. After the war, the club received compensation from the War Damage Commission in the amount of £22,278. While reconstruction took place, the team played its "home" games at Manchester City's Maine Road ground; Manchester United was charged £5,000 per year, plus a nominal percentage of gate receipts.  Later improvements included the addition of roofs, first to the Stretford End and then to the North and East Stands. The roofs were supported by pillars that obstructed many fans' views, and they were eventually replaced with a cantilevered structure. The Stretford End was the last stand to receive a cantilevered roof, completed in time for the 1993–94 season .  First used on 25 March 1957 and costing £40,000, four 180-foot (55 m) pylons were erected, each housing 54 individual floodlights. These were dismantled in 1987 and replaced by a lighting system embedded in the roof of each stand, which remains in use today.  , The Taylor Report 's requirement for an all-seater stadium lowered capacity at Old Trafford to around 44,000 by 1993. In 1995, the North Stand was redeveloped into three tiers, restoring capacity to approximately 55,000. At the end of the 1998–99 season, second tiers were added to the East and West Stands, raising capacity to around 67,000, and between July 2005 and May 2006, 8,000 more seats were added via second tiers in the north-west and north-east quadrants. Part of the new seating was used for the first time on 26 March 2006, when an attendance of 69,070 became a new Premier League record.  The record was pushed steadily upwards before reaching its peak on 31 March 2007, when 76,098 spectators saw Manchester United beat Blackburn Rovers 4–1, with just 114 seats (0.15 percent of the total capacity of 76,212) unoccupied.  In 2009, reorganisation of the seating resulted in a reduction of capacity by 255 to 75,957.   Manchester United has the second highest average attendance of European football clubs only behind Borussia Dortmund .    , Manchester United is reputed to be the most popular football club in the world, with one of the highest average home attendance in Europe .  The club states that its worldwide fan base includes more than 200 officially recognised branches of the Manchester United Supporters Club (MUSC), in at least 24 countries.  The club takes advantage of this support through its worldwide summer tours. Accountancy firm and sports industry consultants Deloitte estimate that Manchester United has 75 million fans worldwide,  while other estimates put this figure closer to 333 million.  A 2014 study showed that Manchester United had the loudest fans in the Premier League.  , Supporters are represented by two independent bodies; the Independent Manchester United Supporters' Association (IMUSA), which maintains close links to the club through the MUFC Fans Forum,  and the Manchester United Supporters' Trust (MUST). After the Glazer family's takeover in 2005, a group of fans formed a splinter club, F.C. United of Manchester . The West Stand of Old Trafford – the " Stretford End " – is the home end and the traditional source of the club's most vocal support.  , Manchester United has rivalries with Arsenal , Leeds United , Liverpool , and Manchester City , against whom they contest the Manchester derby .   , The rivalry with Liverpool is rooted in competition between the cities during the Industrial Revolution when Manchester was famous for its textile industry while Liverpool was a major port.  Manchester United and Liverpool are also the two most successful teams in England and, at many points in their history, they have battled each other for the league title (most recently in the 2008–09 season). Their matches are usually considered by the players and their fans as the biggest in any given season. , The "Roses Rivalry" with Leeds stems from the Wars of the Roses , fought between the House of Lancaster and the House of York , with Manchester United representing Lancashire and Leeds representing Yorkshire.  , The rivalry with Arsenal arises from the numerous times the two teams, as well as managers Alex Ferguson and Arsène Wenger , have battled for the Premier League title. With 33 titles between them (20 for Manchester United, 13 for Arsenal) this fixture has become known as one of the finest Premier League match-ups in history.   , Manchester United has been described as a global brand; a 2011 report by Brand Finance , valued the club's trademarks and associated intellectual property at £412 million – an increase of £39 million on the previous year, valuing it at £11 million more than the second best brand, Real Madrid – and gave the brand a strength rating of AAA (Extremely Strong).  In July 2012, Manchester United was ranked first by Forbes magazine in its list of the ten most valuable sports team brands, valuing the Manchester United brand at $2.23 billion.  The club is ranked third in the Deloitte Football Money League (behind Real Madrid and Barcelona).  In January 2013, the club became the first sports team in the world to be valued at $3 billion. Forbes Magazine valued the club at $3.3 billion – $1.2 billion higher than the next most valuable sports team.  , The core strength of Manchester United's global brand is often attributed to Matt Busby's rebuilding of the team and subsequent success following the Munich air disaster, which drew worldwide acclaim.  The "iconic" team included Bobby Charlton and Nobby Stiles (members of England's World Cup winning team), Denis Law and George Best. The attacking style of play adopted by this team (in contrast to the defensive-minded " catenaccio " approach favoured by the leading Italian teams of the era) "captured the imagination of the English footballing public".  Busby's team also became associated with the liberalisation of Western society during the 1960s; George Best, known as the "fifth Beatle " for his iconic haircut, was the first footballer to significantly develop an off-the-field media profile.  , As the second English football club to float on the London Stock Exchange in 1991, the club raised significant capital, with which it further developed its commercial strategy. The club's focus on commercial and sporting success brought significant profits in an industry often characterised by chronic losses.  The strength of the Manchester United brand was bolstered by intense off-the-field media attention to individual players, most notably David Beckham (who quickly developed his own global brand). This attention often generates greater interest in on-the-field activities, and hence generates sponsorship opportunities – the value of which is driven by television exposure.  During his time with the club, Beckham's popularity across Asia was integral to the club's commercial success in that part of the world.  , Because higher league placement results in a greater share of television rights, success on the field generates greater income for the club. Since the inception of the Premier League, Manchester United has received the largest share of the revenue generated from the BSkyB broadcasting deal.  Manchester United has also consistently enjoyed the highest commercial income of any English club; in 2005–06, the club's commercial arm generated £51 million, compared to £42.5 million at Chelsea, £39.3 million at Liverpool, £34 million at Arsenal and £27.9 million at Newcastle United. A key sponsorship relationship is with sportswear company Nike , who manage the club's merchandising operation as part of a £303 million 13-year partnership established in 2002.  Through Manchester United Finance and the club's membership scheme, One United , those with an affinity for the club can purchase a range of branded goods and services. Additionally, Manchester United-branded media services – such as the club's dedicated television channel, MUTV – have allowed the club to expand its fan base to those beyond the reach of its Old Trafford stadium.  , In an initial five-year deal worth £500,000, Sharp Electronics became the club's first shirt sponsor at the beginning of the 1982–83 season, a relationship that lasted until the end of the 1999–2000 season, when Vodafone agreed a four-year, £30 million deal.  Vodafone agreed to pay £36 million to extend the deal by four years, but after two seasons triggered a break clause in order to concentrate on its sponsorship of the Champions League.  , To commence at the start of the 2006–07 season, American insurance corporation AIG agreed a four-year £56.5 million deal which in September 2006 became the most valuable in the world.   At the beginning of the 2010–11 season, American reinsurance company Aon became the club's principal sponsor in a four-year deal reputed to be worth approximately £80 million, making it the most lucrative shirt sponsorship deal in football history.  Manchester United announced their first training kit sponsor in August 2011, agreeing a four-year deal with DHL reported to be worth £40 million; it is believed to be the first instance of training kit sponsorship in English football.   The DHL contract lasted for over a year before the club bought back the contract in October 2012.  The contract for the training kit sponsorship was then sold to Aon in April 2013 for a deal worth £180 million over eight years, which also included purchasing the naming rights for the Trafford Training Centre .  , The club's first kit manufacturer was Umbro , until a five-year deal was agreed with Admiral Sportswear in 1975.  Adidas received the contract in 1980,  before Umbro started a second spell in 1992.  Umbro's sponsorship lasted for ten years, followed by Nike 's record-breaking £302.9 million deal that will last until 2015; 3.8 million replica shirts were sold in the first 22 months with the company.   In addition to Nike and Chevrolet, the club also has several lower-level "platinum" sponsors, including Aon and Budweiser .  , On 30 July 2012, United signed a seven-year deal with the American automotive corporation General Motors , which replaced Aon as the shirt sponsor from the 2014–15 season. The new $80m  a year shirt deal is worth $559m over seven years and will feature the logo of General Motors brand Chevrolet .  Nike announced that they will not renew their kit supply deal with Manchester United after the 2014–15 season, citing rising costs.   From the 2015–16 season, Adidas will manufacture Manchester United shirts as part of a world-record 10-year deal worth a minimum of £750 million.   , Originally funded by the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway Company, the club became a limited company in 1892 and sold shares to local supporters for £1 via an application form.  In 1902, majority ownership passed to the four local businessmen who invested £500 to save the club from bankruptcy, including future club president John Henry Davies.  After his death in 1927, the club faced bankruptcy yet again, but was saved in December 1931 by James W. Gibson, who assumed control of the club after an investment of £2,000.  Gibson promoted his son, Alan, to the board in 1948,  but died three years later; the Gibson family retained ownership of the club through James' wife, Lillian,  but the position of chairman passed to former player Harold Hardman .  , Promoted to the board a few days after the Munich air disaster, Louis Edwards, a friend of Matt Busby, began acquiring shares in the club; for an investment of approximately £40,000, he accumulated a 54 percent shareholding and took control in January 1964.  When Lillian Gibson died in January 1971, her shares passed to Alan Gibson who sold a percentage of his shares to Louis Edwards' son, Martin, in 1978; Martin Edwards went on to become chairman upon his father's death in 1980.  Media tycoon Robert Maxwell attempted to buy the club in 1984, but did not meet Edwards' asking price.  In 1989, chairman Martin Edwards attempted to sell the club to Michael Knighton for £20 million, but the sale fell through and Knighton joined the Board of Directors instead.  , Manchester United was floated on the stock market in June 1991 (raising £6.7 million),  and received yet another takeover bid in 1998, this time from Rupert Murdoch 's British Sky Broadcasting Corporation. This resulted in the formation of Shareholders United Against Murdoch – now the Manchester United Supporters' Trust – who encouraged supporters to buy shares in the club in an attempt to block any hostile takeover . The Manchester United board accepted a £623 million offer,  but the takeover was blocked by the Monopolies and Mergers Commission at the final hurdle in April 1999.  A few years later, a power struggle emerged between the club's manager, Alex Ferguson, and his horse-racing partners, John Magnier and J. P. McManus , who had gradually become the majority shareholders. In a dispute that stemmed from contested ownership of the horse Rock of Gibraltar , Magnier and McManus attempted to have Ferguson removed from his position as manager, and the board responded by approaching investors to attempt to reduce the Irishmen's majority.  , In May 2005, Malcolm Glazer purchased the 28.7 percent stake held by McManus and Magnier, thus acquiring a controlling interest through his investment vehicle Red Football Ltd in a highly leveraged takeover valuing the club at approximately £800 million (then approx. $1.5 billion).  In July 2006, the club announced a £660 million debt refinancing package, resulting in a 30 percent reduction in annual interest payments to £62 million a year.   In January 2010, with debts of £716.5 million ($1.17 billion),  Manchester United further refinanced through a bond issue worth £504 million, enabling them to pay off most of the £509 million owed to international banks.  The annual interest payable on the bonds – which mature on 1 February 2017 – is approximately £45 million per annum.  Despite restructuring, the club's debt prompted protests from fans on 23 January 2010, at Old Trafford and the club's Trafford Training Centre .   Supporter groups encouraged match-going fans to wear green and gold, the colours of Newton Heath. On 30 January, reports emerged that the Manchester United Supporters' Trust had held meetings with a group of wealthy fans, dubbed the "Red Knights", with plans to buying out the Glazers' controlling interest.  , In August 2011, the Glazers were believed to have approached Credit Suisse in preparation for a $1 billion (approx. £600 million) initial public offering (IPO) on the Singapore stock exchange that would value the club at more than £2 billion.  However, in July 2012, the club announced plans to list its IPO on the New York Stock Exchange instead.  Shares were originally set to go on sale for between $16 and $20 each, but the price was cut to $14 by the launch of the IPO on 10 August, following negative comments from Wall Street analysts and Facebook 's disappointing stock market debut in May. Even after the cut, Manchester United was valued at $2.3 billion, making it the most valuable football club in the world.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Manchester United's first trophy was the Manchester Cup, which it won as Newton Heath LYR in 1886.  In 1908, the club won its first league title, and won the FA Cup for the first time the following year. Manchester United won the most trophies in the 1990s; five league titles, four FA Cups, one League Cup , five Charity Shields (one shared), one UEFA Champions League , one UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , one UEFA Super Cup and one Intercontinental Cup . , The club holds the record for most top-division titles (20).  Manchester United holds the record for the most Premier League titles (13), and was the first English team to win the European Cup in 1968. The club's most recent trophy came in April 2013 with the 2012–13 Premier League title. , The only major honour that Manchester United has never won is the UEFA Europa League ,  although the team reached the quarter-finals in 1984–85 and the semi-finals of the competition's precursor tournament, the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup , in 1964–65.   , Especially short competitions such as the Charity/Community Shield , Intercontinental Cup (now defunct), FIFA Club World Cup or UEFA Super Cup are not generally considered to contribute towards a Double or Treble.   Juventus Football Club S.p.A. (from Latin  iuventus : youth, IPA pronunciation for Italian language [juˈvɛntus] ), commonly referred to as Juventus and colloquially as Juve ( pronounced [ˈjuːve] ),  are a professional Italian association football club based in Turin , Piedmont. The club is the third oldest of its kind in the country and has spent the majority of its history, with the exception of the 2006–07 season , in the top flight First Division (known as Serie A since 1929). , Founded in 1897 as Sport Club Juventus by a group of young Torinese students,  among them, who was their first president , Eugenio Canfari , and his brother Enrico, author of the company's historical memory;    they have been managed by the industrial Agnelli family since 1923, which constitutes the oldest sporting partnership in Italy, thus making Juventus the first professional club in the country.   , Over time, the club has become a symbol of the nation's Italianità ("Italianness"),    due to their tradition of success, some of which have had a significant impact in Italian society, especially in the 1930s and the first post-war decade;  and the ideological politics and socio-economic origin of the club's sympathisers.  This is reflected, among others, in the club's contribution to the national team , uninterrupted since the second half of the 1920s and recognised as one of the most influential in international football , having performed a decisive role in the World Cup triumphs of 1934 , 1982 and 2006 .   The club's fan base is larger than any other Italian football club and is one of the largest worldwide. Support for Juventus is widespread throughout the country and abroad, mainly in countries with a significant presence of Italian immigrants .   , Juventus is historically the most successful club in Italian football and one of the most laureated and important globally.    Overall, they have won fifty-eight official titles on the national and international stage, more than any other Italian club: a record thirty-one official league titles, a record ten Italian cups , a record six national super cups , and, with eleven titles in confederation and inter-confederation competitions (two Intercontinental Cups , two European Champion Clubs' Cup/UEFA Champions Leagues , one European Cup Winners' Cup , three UEFA Cups , one UEFA Intertoto Cup and two UEFA Super Cups ) the club ranks fourth in Europe and eighth in the world with the most trophies won.  , In 1985, under the management of Giovanni Trapattoni , who led the Torinese team to thirteen official trophies in ten years until 1986, including six league titles and five international titles; Juventus became the first club in the history of European football to have won all three major competitions organised by the Union of European Football Associations : the European Champions' Cup, the (now-defunct) Cup Winners' Cup and the UEFA Cup (the first Italian and Southern European side to win the tournament ).    After their triumph in the Intercontinental Cup the same year, the club also became the first in football history—and remains the only one at present—to have won all possible official continental competitions and the world title.    According to the all-time ranking published in 2009 by the International Federation of Football History and Statistics , an organisation recognised by FIFA , based on clubs' performance in international competitions, Juventus were Italy's best club and second in Europe of the 20th century.  , , , Juventus were founded as Sport Club Juventus in late 1897 by pupils from the Massimo D'Azeglio Lyceum school in Turin,  but were renamed as Foot-Ball Club Juventus two years later.  The club joined the Italian Football Championship during 1900. In 1904 the businessman Ajmone-Marsan revived the finances of the football club Juventus, making it also possible to transfer the training field from Piazza d'Armi to the more appropriate Velodrome Umberto I. During this period the team wore a pink and black kit. Juventus first won the league championship in 1905 while playing at their Velodrome Umberto I ground. By this time the club colours had changed to black and white stripes, inspired by English side Notts County .  , There was a split at the club in 1906, after some of the staff considered moving Juve out of Turin.  President Alfred Dick  was unhappy with this and left with some prominent players to found FBC Torino which in turn spawned the Derby della Mole .  Juventus spent much of this period steadily rebuilding after the split, surviving the First World War.  , Fiat owner Edoardo Agnelli gained control of the club in 1923, and built a new stadium.  This helped the club to its second scudetto (league championship) in the 1925–26 season beating Alba Roma with an aggregate score of 12–1, Antonio Vojak 's goals were essential that season.  The club established itself as a major force in Italian football since the 1930s, becoming the country's first professional club and the first with a decentralised fan base,   which led it to win a record of five consecutive Italian championships the first four under the management of Carlo Carcano and form the core of the Italy national team during the Vittorio Pozzo 's era, including the 1934 world champion squad .  With star players such as Raimundo Orsi , Luigi Bertolini , Giovanni Ferrari and Luis Monti amongst others. , Juventus moved to the Stadio Comunale , but for the rest of the 1930s and the majority of the 1940s they were unable to recapture championship dominance. After the Second World War, Gianni Agnelli was appointed honorary president.  The club added two more league championships to its name in the 1949–50 and 1951–52 seasons, the latter of which was under the management of Englishman Jesse Carver . Two new strikers were signed during 1957–58 ; Welshman John Charles and Italo-Argentine Omar Sivori , playing alongside longtime member Giampiero Boniperti . That season saw Juventus awarded with the Golden Star for Sport Excellence to wear on their shirts after becoming the first Italian side to win ten league titles. In the same season, Omar Sivori became the first ever player at the club to win the European Footballer of the Year .  The following season they beat Fiorentina to complete their first league and cup double, winning Serie A and Coppa Italia . Boniperti retired in 1961 as the all-time top scorer at the club, with 182 goals in all competitions, a club record which stood for 45 years.  , During the rest of the decade the club won the league just once more in 1966–67 ,  However, the 1970s saw Juventus further solidify their strong position in Italian football. Under former player Čestmír Vycpálek they won the scudetto in 1971–72 and 1972–73 ,  with players such as Roberto Bettega , Franco Causio and José Altafini breaking through. During the rest of the decade they won the league twice more, with defender Gaetano Scirea contributing significantly. The later win was under Giovanni Trapattoni , who helped the club's domination continue on into the early part of the 1980s  and to form the backbone of the Italian national team during Enzo Bearzot 's era, including the 1978 FIFA World Cup and 1982 world champion squads .   , The Trapattoni-era was highly successful in the 1980s; the club started the decade off well, winning the league title three more times by 1984.  This meant Juventus had won 20 Italian league titles and were allowed to add a second golden star to their shirt, thus becoming the only Italian club to achieve this.  Around this time the club's players were attracting considerable attention; Paolo Rossi was named European Footballer of the Year following his contribution to Italy's victory in the 1982 FIFA World Cup , where he was named player of the tournament.  , Frenchman Michel Platini was also awarded the European Footballer of the Year title for three years in a row; 1983, 1984 and 1985, which is a record.  Juventus are the only club to have players from their club winning the award in four consecutive years.  Indeed, it was Platini who scored the winning goal in the 1985 European Cup final against Liverpool , however this was marred by a tragedy which changed European football.  That year, Juventus became the first club in the history of European football to have won all three major UEFA competitions   and, after their triumph in the Intercontinental Cup , the club also became the first in association football history—and remain the world's only one at present—to have won all possible confederation competitions and the club world title .  , With the exception of winning the closely contested Italian Championship of 1985–86 , the rest of the 1980s were not very successful for the club. As well as having to contend with Diego Maradona 's Napoli, both of the Milanese clubs, Milan and Internazionale , won Italian championships.  In 1990, Juventus moved into their new home, the Stadio delle Alpi , which was built for the 1990 World Cup .  , Marcello Lippi took over as Juventus manager at the start of the 1994–95 campaign.  His first season at the helm of the club was a successful one, as Juventus recorded their first Serie A championship title since the mid-1980s.  The crop of players during this period featured Ciro Ferrara , Roberto Baggio , Gianluca Vialli and a young Alessandro Del Piero . Lippi lead Juventus to the Champions League the following season, beating Ajax on penalties after a 1–1 draw in which Fabrizio Ravanelli scored for Juve.  , The club did not rest long after winning the European Cup, more highly regarded players were brought into the fold in the form of Zinedine Zidane , Filippo Inzaghi and Edgar Davids . At home Juventus won Serie A in 1996–97 and 1997–98 , as well as the 1996 UEFA Super Cup  and the 1996 Intercontinental Cup .  Juventus reached the 1997 and 1998 Champions League finals during this period, but lost out to Borussia Dortmund and Real Madrid respectively.   , After a season's absence Lippi returned, signing big name players such as Gianluigi Buffon , David Trezeguet , Pavel Nedvěd and Lilian Thuram , helping the team to two more scudetto titles in the 2001–02 and 2002–03 seasons.  Juventus were also part of an all Italian Champions League final in 2003 but lost out to Milan on penalties after the game ended in a 0–0 draw. The following year, Lippi was appointed as Italy 's head coach, bringing an end to one of the most fruitful managerial spells in Juventus' history.  , Fabio Capello became its coach in 2004, and led Juventus to two more Serie A titles. However, in May 2006, Juventus became one of the five clubs linked to a 2006 Italian football scandal , the result of which saw the club relegated to Serie B for the first time in its history. The club was also stripped of the two titles won under Capello in 2005 and 2006.  , Many key players left following the demotion to Serie B, including Thuram, star striker Zlatan Ibrahimović and defensive stalwart Fabio Cannavaro . However, other big name players such as Buffon, Del Piero and Nedvěd remained to help the club return to Serie A while youngsters from the Primavera such as Sebastian Giovinco and Claudio Marchisio were integrated into the first team. The bianconeri were promoted straight back up as league winners after the 2006–07 season while captain Del Piero claimed the top scorer award with 21 goals. , As early as 2010, Juventus has considered challenging the stripping of their Scudetti from 2005 and 2006, dependent on the results of trials connected to the 2006 scandal.  Subsequent investigations found in 2011 that Juventus' relegation in 2006 was without merit.  When former general manager Luciano Moggi 's conviction in criminal court in connection with the scandal was thrown out by an appeals court in 2015, the club sued the FIGC for €443 million for damages caused by their 2006 relegation. FIGC president Carlo Tavecchio offered to discuss reinstatement of the lost Scudetti in exchange for Juventus dropping the lawsuit.  , After returning to Serie A in the 2007–08 season , Juventus appointed Claudio Ranieri as manager.  They finished in third place in their first season back in the top flight, and qualified for the 2008–09 Champions League third qualifying round in the preliminary stages. Juventus reached the group stages, where they beat Real Madrid in both home and away legs, before losing in the knockout round to Chelsea. Ranieri was sacked following a string of unsuccessful results, and Ciro Ferrara was appointed as manager on a temporary basis for the last two games of the 2008–09 season ,  before being subsequently appointed as the manager for the 2009–10 season .  , However, Ferrara's stint as Juventus manager proved to be unsuccessful, with Juventus knocked out of Champions League and Coppa Italia , and just lying on the sixth place in the league table at the end of January 2010, leading to the dismissal of Ciro Ferrara and naming Alberto Zaccheroni as caretaker manager. Zaccheroni could not help the side improve, as Juventus finished the season in seventh place in Serie A. For the 2010–11 season , Jean-Claude Blanc was replaced by Andrea Agnelli as the club's president. Agnelli's first action was to replace Zaccheroni and Director of Sport Alessio Secco with Sampdoria manager Luigi Delneri and Director of Sport Giuseppe Marotta .  However, Delneri failed to improve their fortunes and was dismissed. Former player and fan favourite Antonio Conte , fresh after winning promotion with Siena , was named as Delneri's replacement. In September 2011, Juve relocated to the new Juventus Stadium . , With Conte as manager, Juventus went unbeaten for the entire 2011–12 Serie A season. Towards the second half of the season, the team was mostly competing with northern rivals Milan for first place in a tight contest. Juventus won the title on the 37th matchday, after beating Cagliari 2–0, and Milan losing to Internazionale 4–2. After a 3–1 win in the final matchday against Atalanta , Juventus became the first team to go the season unbeaten in the current 38-game format. Other noteworthy achievements include the biggest away win (5–0 at Fiorentina ), best defensive record (20 goals conceded, fewest ever in the current league format) in Serie A and second best in the top six European leagues that year.  , In 2013–14 , Juventus won a third consecutive Scudetto with a record 102 points.  The title was the 30th official league championship in the club's history.  They also achieved the semi-finals of 2013–14 UEFA Europa League being eliminated at home against 10-man Benfica 's catenaccio , missing the final at the Juventus Stadium.   In 2014–15 , Juventus won a fourth straight scudetto. They also beat Real Madrid in the semi finals of the 2014–15 UEFA Champions League 3-2 on aggregate to face Barcelona in the final in Berlin for the first time since the 2002-03 UEFA Champions League .  Juventus lost the final to Barcelona 3-1 after a hard fought battle. With early 4th minute goal from Ivan Rakitić , followed by Álvaro Morata's equalizer in the 55th minute. Barcelona took the lead again with a goal from Luis Suárez in the 70th minute, followed by a final minute goal by Neymar as Juventus were caught out on the counterattack.  , Juventus have played in black and white striped shirts, with white shorts, sometimes black shorts since 1903. Originally, they played in pink shirts with a black tie, but only because they had been sent the wrong shirts. The father of one of the players made the earliest shirts, but continual washing faded the colour so much that in 1903 the club sought to replace them.  , Juventus asked one of their team members, Englishman John Savage, if he had any contacts in England who could supply new shirts in a colour that would better withstand the elements. He had a friend who lived in Nottingham, who being a Notts County supporter, shipped out the black and white striped shirts to Turin.  Juve have worn the shirts ever since, considering the colours to be aggressive and powerful.  , Juventus Football Club's official emblem has undergone different and small modifications since the 1920s. The last modification of the Old Lady' s badge took place before 2004–05 season. Since then, the emblem of the team is a black-and-white oval shield of a type used by Italian ecclesiastics. It is divided in five vertical stripes: two white stripes and three black stripes, inside which are the following elements; in its upper section, the name of the society superimposed on a white convex section , over golden curvature (gold for honour ). The white silhouette of a charging bull is in the lower section of the oval shield, superimposed on a black old French shield ; the charging bull is a symbol of the Comune di Torino . , There is also a black silhouette of a mural crown above the black spherical triangle's base. This is a reminiscence to Augusta Tourinorum, the old city of the Roman era which the present capital of Piedmont region is its cultural heiress. , In the past, the convex section of the emblem had a blue colour (another symbol of Turin) and, furthermore, its shape was concave . The old French shield and the mural crown, also in the lower section of the emblem, had a considerably greater size with respect to the present. The two Golden Stars for Sport Excellence were located above the convex and concave section of Juventus' emblem. During the 1980s, the club emblem was the silhouette of a zebra , to both sides of the equide 's head, the two golden stars and, above this badge, forming an arc , the club's name. , During its history, the club has acquired a number of nicknames, la Vecchia Signora  (the Old Lady) being the best example. The "old" part of the nickname is a pun on Juventus which means "youth" in Latin .  It was derived from the age of the Juventus star players towards the middle of the 1930s. The "lady" part of the nickname is how fans of the club affectionately referred to it before the 1930s. The club is also nicknamed la Fidanzata d'Italia (the Girlfriend of Italy), because over the years it has received a high level of support from Southern Italian immigrant workers (particularly from Naples and Palermo ), who arrived in Turin to work for FIAT since the 1930s. Other nicknames include; i bianconeri (the black-and-whites), le zebre (the zebras  ) in reference to Juventus' colours. I gobbi (the hunchbacks) is the nickname that is used to define Juventus supporters, but is also used sometimes for team's players. The most widely accepted origin of gobbi dates to the fifties, when the bianconeri team was wearing a large jersey. When players ran on the field, the jersey, which had an opening on the chest with laces, generated a bulge on the back (a sort of parachute effect), giving the impression that the players have a hunchback.  , After the first two years (1897 and 1898), during which Juventus played in the Parco del Valentino and Parco Cittadella, their matches were held in the Piazza d'Armi Stadium until 1908, except in 1905, the first year of the scudetto , and in 1906, years in which it played at the Corso Re Umberto . , From 1909 to 1922, Juventus played their internal competitions at Corso Sebastopoli Camp, and before moving the following year to Corso Marsiglia Camp where they remained until 1933, winning four league titles. At the end of 1933 they began to play at the new Stadio Mussolini stadium inaugurated for the 1934 World Championships . After the Second World War, the stadium was renamed as Stadio Comunale Vittorio Pozzo . Juventus played home matches at the ground for 57 years, a total of 890 league matches.  The team continued to host training sessions at the stadium until July 2003.  , From 1990 until the 2005–06 season, the Torinese side contested their home matches at Stadio delle Alpi , built for the 1990 FIFA World Cup , although in very rare circumstances, the club played some home games in other stadia such as Renzo Barbera at Palermo , Dino Manuzzi at Cesena and the Stadio Giuseppe Meazza at Milan .  , In August 2006, the bianconeri returned to play in the Stadio Comunale, now known as Stadio Olimpico , after the restructuring of the stadium for the 2006 Winter Olympics onwards. In November 2008, Juventus announced that they will invest around €120 million to build a new ground, the Juventus Stadium , on the site of Delle Alpi. Unlike the old ground, there will not be a running track; instead the pitch will be only 7.5 meters away from the stands. The planned capacity is 41,000. Work began during spring 2009 and the stadium was opened on 8 September 2011 for the start of the 2011–12 season. , Juventus are the best-supported football club in Italy, with over 12 million fans or tifosi , which represent approximately 29% of the total Italian football fans according to a research published in September 2010 by Italian research agency Demos & Pi,  and one of the most supported football clubs in the world, with 180 million supporters (43 million in Europe alone),  particularly in the Mediterranean countries, to which a large number of Italian diaspora have emigrated.  The Torinese side has fan clubs branches across the globe.  , Demand for Juventus tickets in occasional home games held away from Turin is high; suggesting that Juventus have stronger support in other parts of the country. Juve is widely and especially popular throughout mainland Southern Italy , Sicily and Malta , leading the team to have one of the largest followings in its away matches,  more than in Turin itself. , Juventus have significant rivalries with two clubs. Their traditional rivals are fellow Turin club Torino F.C. and matches between the two side are known as the Derby della Mole (Derby of Turin). The rivalry dates back to 1906 as Torino was founded by break-away Juventus players and staff. Their most high-profile rivalry is with Internazionale , another big Serie A club located in Milan , the capital of the neighbouring region of Lombardy . Matches between these two clubs are referred to as the Derby d'Italia (Derby of Italy) and the two regularly challenge each other at the top of the league table, hence the intense rivalry.  Up until the Calciopoli scandal which saw Juventus forcibly relegated, the two were the only Italian clubs to have never played below Serie A . Notably the two sides are the first and the second most supported clubs in Italy and the rivalry has intensified since the later part of the 1990s; reaching its highest levels ever post-Calciopoli, with the return of Juventus to Serie A.  They also have rivalries with Milan ,  Roma ,  Fiorentina ,  and Napoli .  , The Juventus youth set-up has been recognised as one of the best in Italy for producing young talents.  While not all graduates made it to the first team, many have enjoyed successful careers in the Italian top flight . Under long-time coach Vincenzo Chiarenza , the Primavera (Under-20) squad enjoyed one of its successful periods, winning all age-group competitions from 2004 to 2006. , The youth system is also notable for its contribution to the Italian national senior and youth teams. 1934 World Cup winner Gianpiero Combi , 1936 Gold Medal and 1938 World Cup winner Pietro Rava , Giampiero Boniperti , Roberto Bettega , 1982 World Cup hero Paolo Rossi and more recently, Claudio Marchisio and Sebastian Giovinco are a number of former graduates who have gone on to make the first team and full Italy squad.  , Like Dutch club Ajax and many Premier League clubs, Juventus operates several satellite clubs and football schools outside of the country (i.e. United States, Canada, Greece , Saudi Arabia , Australia and Switzerland ) and numerous camps in the local region to expand talent scouting.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , See also: 2014–15 Juventus F.C. season Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Loan deals expire on 30 June 2015. , Source: Juventus.com ( archive link ) , Juventus have had numerous presidents over the course of their history, some of which have been the owners of the club, others have been honorary presidents, here is a complete list of them:  , Below is a list of Juventus managers from 1923 when the Agnelli family took over and the club became more structured and organised,  until the present day.  , Italy's most successful club of the 20th century,  and the most successful club in the history of Italian football ,  Juventus have won the Italian League Championship , the country's premier football club competition and organised by Lega Nazionale Professionisti Serie A (LNPA), a record 31 times and have the record of consecutive triumphs in that tournament (five, between 1930–31 and 1934–35 ).  They have also won the Italian Cup , the country's primary cup competition, a record ten times, and becoming the first team to retain the trophy successfully with their triumph in the 1959–60 season.  In addition, the club holds the joint-record for Italian Super Cup wins with six, along with AC Milan , the most recent coming in 2013 . , Overall, Juventus have won 58 official competitions, more than any other team in the country: 47 domestic trophies, which is also a record, and 11 official international competitions,  making them, in the latter case, the second most successful Italian club in European competition .  The club is fourth in Europe and eighth in the world with the most international titles won officially recognised by their respective association football confederation and Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA).  , In 1977 , the Torinese side become the first in Southern Europe to have won the UEFA Cup and the first—and only to date—in Italian football history to achieve an international title with a squad composed by national footballers .  In 1993 the club won its third competition's trophy, an unprecedented feat in the continent until then and the most for an Italian club. Juventus was, also, the first Italian club to achieve the title in the European Super Cup , having won the competition in 1984 , and the first European club to win the Intercontinental Cup , in 1985 , since it was restructured by Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) and Confederación Sudamericana de Fútbol (CONMEBOL)'s organizing committee five years beforehand.  , The club has earned the distinction of being allowed to wear three Golden Stars for Sport Excellence ( it. Stelle d'oro al Merito Sportivo ) on its shirts representing its league victories, the tenth of which was achieved during the 1957–58 season , the twentieth in the 1981–82 season and the thirtieth in the 2013–14 season . Juventus were the first Italian team to have achieved the national double thrice (winning the Italian top tier division and the national cup competition in the same season), in the 1959–60; 1994–95 and 2014–15 seasons. , The club is unique in the world in having won all official international competitions,   and they have received, in recognition to winning the three major UEFA competitions  — first case in the history of the European football —  The UEFA Plaque by the Union of European Football Associations on 12 July 1988.   , The Torinese side was placed 7th—but the top Italian club—in the FIFA Club of the Century selection of 23 December 2000.  , Juventus have been proclaimed World's Club Team of the Year twice (1993 and 1996)  and was ranked in 3rd place—the highest ranking of any Italian club—in the All-Time Club World Ranking (1991–2009 period) by the International Federation of Football History & Statistics .  , Alessandro Del Piero holds Juventus' official appearance record (646 as of 23 October 2010). He took over from Gaetano Scirea on 6 March 2008 against Palermo . He also holds the record for Serie A appearances with 467 (as of 21 December 2011). , Including all official competitions, Alessandro Del Piero is the all-time leading goalscorer for Juventus, with 277 goals—as of 23 October 2010—since joining the club in 1993. Giampiero Boniperti , who was the all-time topscorer since 1961 comes in second in all competitions with 182. , In the 1933–34 season, Felice Borel scored 31 goals in 34 appearances, setting the club record for Serie A goals in a single season. Ferenc Hirzer is the club's highest scorer in a single season with 35 goals in 26 appearances in the 1925–26 season (record of Italian football). The most goals scored by a player in a single match is 6, which is also an Italian record. This was achieved by Omar Enrique Sivori in a game against Internazionale in the 1960–61 season.  , The first ever official game participated in by Juventus was in the Third Federal Football Championship , the predecessor of Serie A , against Torinese ; Juve lost 0–1. The biggest ever victory recorded by Juventus was 15–0 against Cento, in the second round of the Coppa Italia in the 1926–27 season. In terms of the league; Fiorentina and Fiumana were famously on the end of the Old Lady' s biggest championship wins, both were beaten 11–0 and were recorded in the 1928–29 season. Juventus' heaviest championship defeats came during the 1911–12 and 1912–13 seasons; they were against Milan in 1912 (1–8) and Torino in 1913 (0–8).  , The sale of Zinédine Zidane to Real Madrid of Spain from Juventus in 2001, was the world football transfer record at the time, costing the Spanish club around £46 million. , Overall, Juventus are the club that has contributed the most players to the Italian national team in history,  they are the only Italian club that has contributed players to every Italian national team since the 2nd FIFA World Cup .  Juventus have contributed numerous players to Italy's World Cup campaigns, these successful periods principally have coincided with two golden ages of the Turin club's history, referred as Quinquennio d'Oro (The Golden Quinquennium), from 1931 until 1935, and Ciclo Leggendario (The Legendary Cycle), from 1972 to 1986. , Below are a list of Juventus players who represented the Italian national team during World Cup winning tournaments;  , Two Juventus players have won the golden boot award at the World Cup with Italy; Paolo Rossi in 1982 and Salvatore Schillaci in 1990 . As well as contributing to Italy's World Cup winning sides, two Juventus players Alfredo Foni and Pietro Rava, represented Italy in the gold medal winning squad at the 1936 Summer Olympics . Three bianconeri players represented their nation during the 1968 European Football Championship win for Italy; Sandro Salvadore , Ernesto Càstano and Giancarlo Bercellino .  , The Torinese club has also contributed to a lesser degree to the national sides of other nations. Zinédine Zidane and captain Didier Deschamps were Juventus players when they won the 1998 World Cup with France , making it as the association football club which supplied the most FIFA World Cup winners globally (24)  (three other players in the 1998 squad, Patrick Vieira , David Trezeguet and Lilian Thuram have all played for Juventus at one time or another). Three Juventus players have also won the European Football Championship with a nation other than Italy, Luis del Sol won it in 1964 with Spain , while the Frenchmen Michel Platini and Zidane won the competition in 1984 and 2000 respectively.  , Since 27 June 1967 Juventus Football Club has been a joint-stock company ( it. società per azioni )  and since 3 December 2001 the torinese side is listed on the Borsa Italiana .  As of 2011, the Juventus' shares are distributed between 63.77% to EXOR S.p.A ,  the Agnelli family's holding (a company of the Giovanni Agnelli & C.S.a.p.a Group ),   7.5% to Libyan Arab Foreign Investment Co.  and 32.5% to other shareholders.  Since 2012, Jeep became the new sponsor of Juventus, a car brand acquired by FIAT after the 2000s Global Financial Crisis. , Along with Lazio and Roma , Juventus is one of only three Italian clubs quoted on Borsa Italiana (Italian stock exchange). Juventus was also the only association football club in the country member of STAR (Segment of Stocks conforming to High Requirements, it. Segmento Titoli con Alti Requisiti ), one of the main market segment in the world.  However, due to 2011 financial results, Juventus had to move from the STAR segment to MTA market.  , The club's training ground was owned by Campi di Vinovo S.p.A, controlled by Juventus Football Club S.p.A. to 71.3%.  In 2003 the club bought the lands from the subsidiary  and later the company was dissolved. Since then Juventus FC did not had any subsidiary. , From 1 July 2008, the club has implemented a safety management system for employees and athletes in compliance with the requirements of international OHSAS 18001:2007 regulation  and a Safety Management System in the medical sector according to the international ISO 9001:2000 resolution.  , The club is one of the founders of the European Club Association (ECA), which was formed after the dissolution of the G-14 , an international group of Europe's most elite clubs of which Juventus were also a founding member.  , According to the Deloitte Football Money League , a research published by consultants Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu in 17 January 2014, Juventus are the ninth-highest earning football club in the world with an estimated revenue of €272.4 million, the most for an Italian club.  The club is also ranked 9th on Forbes' list of the most valuable football clubs in the world with an estimate value of US$850 million (€654 million), making them the second richest association football club in Italy. The club was located in 2012 in top 50 sporting teams at worldwide level in terms of value.   , Juventus re-capitalized on 28 June 2007, increased €104,807,731.60 shares capital.  The team made an aggregate net loss in the following seasons (2006 to date): -€927,569 (2006–07),  -€20,787,469 (2007–08),  net income €6,582,489 (2008–09)  and net loss €10,967,944 (2009–10).  After an unaudited €43,411,481 net loss was recorded in the first 9 months of 2010–11 season,  the BoD announced that a capital increase of €120 million was planned, scheduled to submit to the extraordinary shareholder's meeting in October.  Eventually the 2010–11 season net loss was €95,414,019.  In the 2012–13 season Juventus continued to recover from recent seasons' net losses thanks to the biggest payment in Uefa's Champions League 2012–13 revenue distribution, earning €65.3 million. Despite being knocked out in the quarterfinal stage, Juventus took the lion's share thanks to the largesse of the Italian national TV market and the division of revenues with the only other Italian team attended at the competition's final phase, AC Milan.  Confirming the trend of marked improvement in net result, the 2013–14 financial year closed with a loss of €6.7 million but the with first positive operating income since 2006.   Sport Lisboa e Benfica ComC , OM , MHIH   ( Portuguese pronunciation:  [spɔɾ liʒˈboɐ i bɐ̃ȷ̃ˈfikɐ] ), commonly known as Benfica , or simply as SLB , is a Portuguese sports club based in Lisbon . The club is best known for its professional football team which plays in the Primeira Liga , the top tier of the Portuguese football league system , where they are back-to-back champions.  , Founded in 1904 as Sport Lisboa by a group of people led by Cosme Damião , Benfica is one of the Big Three clubs in Portugal ( Os Três Grandes ), along with its long-standing rivals Sporting CP and FC Porto – all three clubs have never been relegated from the Portuguese league since its establishment in 1934.   , Benfica is the most supported Portuguese club, the European club with the biggest percentage of supporters in its own country,   and the biggest club in the world in membership terms.   Its motto is " E pluribus unum " (Out of many, one) and the official anthem is " Ser Benfiquista ".  The club colours are red and white, the team is nicknamed Águias (Eagles) or Encarnados (Reds), and their supporters are called Benfiquistas . Their home matches have been played at the Estádio da Luz since 2003, which replaced the previous 49-year-old ground .  , Benfica is the most successful Portuguese club in terms of domestic titles (73) and overall titles (75 ,  or 76 including the Latin Cup ),   being the only club to have won all Portuguese competitions. They have won a record 34 Primeira Liga titles, a record 25 Taça de Portugal (a record 10 doubles ), a record 6 Taça da Liga , 5 Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira and 3 Campeonato de Portugal . Internationally, Benfica won two consecutive European Cup titles in 1961 and 1962 , a unique feat in Portuguese football . In addition, they were runners-up at the Intercontinental Cup in 1961 and 1962 , at the European Cup in 1963 , 1965 , 1968 , 1988 and 1990 , and at the UEFA Cup/Europa League in 1983 , 2013 and 2014 . Benfica have reached 10 European finals, which ranks seventh all-time among UEFA clubs and is a Portuguese record.  , In 2000, Benfica was ranked twelfth in FIFA Club of the Century award.  In 2009, it was ranked ninth in "Europe's Club of the Century" by IFFHS .  As of 2015 [update] , Benfica is ranked sixth in the UEFA club coefficient rankings  and twelfth in the IFFHS World Club Ranking ,  which are the best positions of a Portuguese club.   , , , On 28 February 1904, a group of former students from the Real Casa Pia de Lisboa and members of Associação do Bem met at the back of Farmácia Franco on Rua de Belém with the goal of forming a social and cultural football club which would be called Sport Lisboa . There were a total of 24 people who attended the meeting, including the eighteen-year-old co-founder and future soul of the club, Cosme Damião . During the meeting, José Rosa Rodrigues was appointed as club president , along with Daniel Brito as secretary and Manuel Gourlade as treasurer. In this meeting it was defined that the club colours would be red (for bravery) and white (for peace), and that the crest would be composed of an eagle (symbolising high aspirations), the motto " E pluribus unum " (defining union between all club members), and a football ball .     , On 1 January 1905, they played their first match ever, winning 1–0 against Campo de Ourique. Despite important victories in the first few years, the club suffered due to poor operating conditions, namely the football dirt field Terras do Desembargador .  As a result, in 1907, eight players joined Sporting CP , located across the city. This event started the rivalry between the clubs. , On 13 September 1908, Sport Lisboa acquired Grupo Sport Benfica (founded on 26 July 1906 and renamed Sport Clube de Benfica in March 1908) by mutual agreement and changed its name to Sport Lisboa e Benfica . Despite the club merger, they continued their respective club operations. For Sport Lisboa they maintained the football team, the red and white shirt colours, the eagle as the symbol, and "E pluribus unum" as the motto. For Grupo Sport Benfica they maintained the field Campo da Feiteira ,  the main directors and the club's house. Both clubs determined that the foundation date should coincide with Sport Lisboa's (1904) given that it was the most recognised club and quite popular in Lisbon due to its football merits. In regard to the crest, a cycling wheel was added to Sport Lisboa's to represent the most important sport of Grupo Sport Benfica. Furthermore, the two entities of the new club had simultaneous members who helped to stabilise operations, which later increased the success of the merger. However, problems with the club's rented field remained. In 1913, Benfica moved to their first football grass field, Campo de Sete Rios . Four years later they moved to Campo de Benfica due to a high rent. In 1925, they moved to their own stadium, Estádio das Amoreiras ,  and this was the place where Benfica won their first national titles. , The Portuguese league began in 1934, and after finishing third in the first edition, Benfica won the next three championships in a row ( 1935–36 , 1936–37 , 1937–38 ). In 1940, Benfica won their first Taça de Portugal . In 1941, Benfica moved to Estádio do Campo Grande .  Throughout the 1940s, Benfica won three Primeira Liga ( 1941–42 , 1942–43 , 1944–45 ) and four Taça de Portugal ( 1940 , 1943 , 1944 , 1949 ). János Biri achieved the first double for the club in 1943. , Benfica's first international success happened in 1950 when they won the Latin Cup (the only Portuguese club to do so), defeating Bordeaux at the Estádio Nacional in Lisbon, with Ted Smith as manager.  They reached another final of the competition in 1957 but lost to Real Madrid at the Santiago Bernabéu . , With Joaquim Ferreira Bogalho elected as president in 1952 and the arrival of manager Otto Glória in 1954,  Benfica became more modernised and professional, and moved into the original Estádio da Luz with an initial capacity of 40,000 spectators; later expanded to 70,000 in 1960.   , During the 1950s, Benfica won three Primeira Liga ( 1949–50 , 1954–55 , 1956–57 – they were champions in 1955 but Sporting CP played the 1955–56 European Cup instead) and six Taça de Portugal ( 1951 , 1952 , 1953 , 1955 , 1957 , 1959 ), achieving the second double in 1955 and the third one in 1957. In addition to these successes, Benfica was able to end the decade with the basic foundations in place, enabling the club to enter the 1960s as one of the best in European football . , Led by manager Béla Guttmann ,  Benfica was one of two teams, along with Barcelona , to break Real Madrid's dominance in European Champion Clubs' Cup by winning two consecutive European Cup, the first against Barcelona in 1961 (3–2) at the Wankdorf Stadium  and the second one against Real Madrid in 1962 (5–3) at the Olympic Stadium .  , Later on, Benfica reached another three European Cup finals but lost them to Milan in 1963 (2–1) at the Wembley Stadium , to Internazionale in 1965 (1–0) at the San Siro , and to Manchester United in 1968 (4–1) again at the Wembley Stadium. In 1968, Benfica was elected the European Team of the Year by France Football . , The 1960s were the best period of the club, in which Benfica won eight Primeira Liga ( 1959–60 , 1960–61 , 1962–63 , 1963–64 , 1964–65 , 1966–67 , 1967–68 , 1968–69 ), three Taça de Portugal ( 1962 , 1964 , 1969 ) and two European Cup ( 1960–61 , 1961–62 ). Their fourth domestic double was achieved in 1964 with Lajos Czeizler and the fifth one in 1969 with Otto Glória. , Many of their successes in this decade were achieved with Eusébio – the only player to have won a Ballon d'Or for a Portuguese club – Coluna , José Águas , José Augusto , Simões , Torres , and other notable players , who formed the team of 1963–64, which set a club record of 103 goals in 26 league matches.  During its golden decade, Benfica was ranked first in European football three times. , During the 1970s, they faded slightly from the European scene, but remained as the main force of Portuguese football , winning six Primeira Liga ( 1970–71 , 1971–72 , 1972–73 , 1974–75 , 1975–76 , 1976–77 ) and two Taça de Portugal ( 1970 , 1972 ). Jimmy Hagan led the club to three Primeira Liga and one Taça de Portugal between 1970 and 1973, achieving the club's sixth double in 1972. Benfica attracted Europe-wide attention when they reached the semi-finals of the European Cup, where they were eliminated on aggregate (1–0) by Ajax of Johan Cruyff . , In 1972–73, Benfica became the first club in Portugal to last a whole season without defeat, winning 28 matches – 23 consecutively – out of 30, and drawing 2. In that year, Eusébio became Europe's top scorer with 40 goals, in what was his penultimate season as a Benfica player. They scored 101 goals, breaking the 100 goals mark for the second time in the club's history, and conceded 13 goals. , In the late 1970s, early 1980s, the club had some corporate management problems but the team managed to keep up to their high standards. In 1981, Lajos Baróti secured the seventh double for Benfica by winning the Primeira Liga and the Taça de Portugal . Later, under the guidance of Sven-Göran Eriksson , the club won two consecutive Primeira Liga ( 1982–83 , 1983–84 ) and one Taça de Portugal ( 1983 ), achieving their eighth double, and reached the final of the UEFA Cup in 1983 but lost on aggregate score to Anderlecht . In the same year, Benfica also won the Iberian Cup II, beating Athletic Bilbao on aggregate. Eight years later, they were runners-up against Atlético de Madrid in Iberian Cup III. , Following the completion of improvements to the stadium, the board of Benfica decided to open the third tier of the Estádio da Luz, which transformed it into the biggest football stadium in Europe and third largest in the world , with a seating capacity of 120,000 spectators (up to 135,000 when they standed behind the goals). In 1986–87, John Moltimore won the Primeira Liga and Taça de Portugal , obtaining the ninth double for Benfica. , From 1988 to 1994, Benfica made a huge financial investment in an effort to win another European Cup, reaching two European Cup finals in 1988 and 1990 but lost them to PSV (on penalties) and Milan (1–0), respectively. During the same period of time, Benfica won three Primeira Liga ( 1988–89 , 1990–91 , 1993–94 ) and one Taça de Portugal ( 1993 ). In 1988–89, led by manager Toni , they only conceded 15 goals in 38 league matches, a club record.  , Financial trouble dating back to the 1980s [ citation needed ] when Benfica completed the third tier ( Terceiro Anel ) of the Estádio da Luz, along with the dream of becoming European champions again, started to deteriorate the club finances. The rampant spending and a questionable signing policy, which allowed for squads composed of well over 30 players, further aggravated the problem. [ citation needed ] , The period from 1994 through 2003 was the worst in their history. During this time, Benfica only won the Taça de Portugal in 1996 , suffered their biggest defeat in European competitions (7–0 against Celta de Vigo ) in 1999,  and had their lowest Primeira Liga finishing positions, such as sixth in 2000–01 and fourth in 2001–02 . The club entered in default during João Vale e Azevedo 's three-year presidency,  which further damaged the club finances and credibility, and nearly every year hired two or more managers. [ citation needed ] Eleven managers shared the seat from 1994 to 2003, including Mário Wilson , thrice.  , It was during this period that Benfica signed Simão Sabrosa for €12 million,  and decided to build the new Estádio da Luz on 28 September 2001, which would eventually cost €162 million.   , In the 2003–04 season , with a new president, Luís Filipe Vieira , and manager José Antonio Camacho , who had joined in 2002,  Benfica won their 24th Taça de Portugal defeating José Mourinho 's Porto in the final (2–1). They ended a eight-year silverware drought and dedicated the trophy to Miklós Fehér who had died in January 2004.  , In 2004–05 , Benfica won their 31st league title (their first in ten seasons) with Giovanni Trapattoni as manager.  Later on, the club president, manager, and the first-team squad travelled to Hungary to deliver the Portuguese championship gold medal to Fehér's parents.  , In 2005–06 , Benfica won their fourth Supertaça against Vitória de Setúbal (1–0). In Europe, Benfica managed to reach the quarter-finals of UEFA Champions League beating Manchester United 2–1 in the decisive group stage encounter, and then overcoming the European champions Liverpool 3–0 on aggregate. However, Benfica lost in the quarter-finals to the eventual Champions League winners Barcelona by an aggregate of 2–0, both goals coming during the second leg at Camp Nou . , In 2006–07 , Benfica found themselves again facing Manchester United in a decisive Champions League group match in which the winner would advance. However, this time Manchester United prevailed, gaining revenge in a 3–1 win. , On 20 August 2007, manager Camacho returned to Benfica  on a two-year contract, following the sacking of Fernando Santos after one match in the Primeira Liga (a tie against promoted Leixões ), at a time when Benfica was facing a vital Champions League qualifying match against Copenhagen . A successful move since Benfica guaranteed a place in the Champions League after beating Copenhagen 1–0, but exited the competition at the group stage and were put into UEFA Cup , where they lost to Getafe . Camacho resigned on 9 March 2008. Afterwards, with Fernando Chalana as an interim manager, they failed to gain a top three finish in the league and were placed in the UEFA Cup . , On 22 May 2008, Quique Flores was appointed as manager.  He won the club's first Taça da Liga defeating Sporting CP. In the Primeira Liga they finished third and got a place in the UEFA Europa League . , On 8 June 2009, Flores resigned after agreeing to a friendly contractual termination.  , On 17 June 2009, Benfica signed Jorge Jesus as manager.  , In the 2009–10 season , Benfica beat Porto 3–0 in the Taça da Liga final on 21 March 2010 and won their second consecutive league cup trophy. In Europe, Benfica was drawn against Liverpool in the quarter-finals of the Europa League. At the Estádio da Luz, Benfica defeated Liverpool 2–1 but were eliminated after a 4–1 loss at Anfield .   On 9 May 2010, Benfica won their final league match against Rio Ave and became champion of the 2009–10 Primeira Liga ,  conquering their 32nd league title and securing a direct entry into the 2010–11 UEFA Champions League . Óscar Cardozo finished as top scorer of Primeira Liga with 26 goals.  Benfica had the highest average attendance in the league (50,033).  , In 2010–11 , after finishing third in the group stage of UEFA Champions League, Benfica moved to Europa League and progressed to their first European semi-final in eighteen years. Nevertheless, they were eliminated on away goals after an aggregate score of 2–2 against Braga . On 23 April 2011, Benfica won the Taça da Liga final against Paços de Ferreira , clinching their third consecutive title in the competition.  Then, they finished second in Primeira Liga . , In 2011–12 , Benfica reached the quarter-finals of the Champions League , being eliminated by eventual winners Chelsea ;  won their fourth consecutive Taça da Liga ,  and was second in Primeira Liga qualifying directly to the 2012–13 UEFA Champions League . Óscar Cardozo was the top scorer of Primeira Liga for the second time, with 20 goals.  In January 2012, Benfica was ranked eighth in World Club Ranking by IFFHS.  , In 2012–13 , Benfica returned to a European final,  after coming third in their Champions League group, they reached the Europa League final eliminating Fenerbahçe , but lost 2–1 to 2012 European champions Chelsea. It was the ninth European final overall for Benfica and the first since the 1990 European Cup final.   Domestically, Benfica was second in Primeira Liga by one point, despite leading before the penultimate day.  They reached the semi-finals of the Taça da Liga but lost on penalty shoot-out against the eventual winners Braga. They reached the final of the Taça de Portugal but lost (1–2) against Vitória de Guimarães.   Benfica had the highest average attendance (42,366) of Primeira Liga.  , The 2013–14 season was one of the best in their history as Benfica won their 33rd champions title ,    their fifth Taça da Liga , without conceding a single goal (record),  reached the Europa League final for a second consecutive time,  without defeat (record)  (lost on penalties to Sevilla ),   and won their 25th Taça de Portugal , achieving their tenth Portuguese double .  On 18 May 2014, Benfica achieved an historic treble , their first, and a unique one in Portuguese football.   They completed the season unbeaten at home in all five competitions,  and had the best defence of all European leagues with 18 goals conceded.  Lima was the top goalscorer with 21 goals (14 in the league). In terms of average home attendance, the club improved the previous number to 43,613.  In January 2014, Benfica was ranked tenth in World Club Ranking by IFFHS.   The year of 2014 was also marked by the deaths of club legends Eusébio and Coluna.   , Benfica started the 2014–15 season by winning the Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira ,   thus establishing a new Portuguese record of all four domestic titles won in a year. In August 2014, RSSSF ranked Benfica as the best team in UEFA competitions since 2009, fourth since 2004, and seventh in the all-time ranking.  On 17 May 2015, Benfica won their 34th league title and clinched their first back-to-back titles since 1984.   On 29 May 2015, Benfica won their sixth Taça da Liga (record), defeating Marítimo 2–1, and became the Portuguese club with most titles won (75) .    , On 15 June 2015, Benfica signed Rui Vitória as manager.  , Benfica's crest is composed of an eagle – as a symbol of independence, authority, and nobility – positioned atop the shield with the colours red and white – symbolising bravery and peace, respectively – the motto "E pluribus unum" (Out of many, one) – defining union between all members – and the acronym "SLB" for Sport Lisboa e Benfica , over a football ball; everything superimposed on a bicycle wheel which was taken from Grupo Sport Benfica.   , The club has had four main crests since its inception in 1904. , The origin of the current crest goes back to 1908 when Sport Lisboa was merged with Grupo Sport Benfica. Back then, only red and white colours were displayed on the crest. In 1930, the crest was altered and the colours from the flag of Portugal were added. Sixty-nine years later, in 1999, the crest was changed again. The most significant changes were the modification and repositioning of the eagle, and the reduction of the wheel's size.  , Benfica have used commemorative crests since 2010 by adding stars on top of it. In 2010, they changed the crest and added one star to celebrate their first European Cup. In 2011, they added two stars to commemorate their second European Cup. In 2012, they started using three stars, each star representing 10 league titles won by the club.   , 1908–1930 , 1930–1999 , 1999–present , During their history, Benfica had to play (mostly) in rented fields until 1925. Then, after their own stadium was built (Estádio das Amoreiras), they played there until 1940. In 1941, they started playing at the rented municipal stadium (Estádio do Campo Grande) before moving to their own second stadium, fourteen years later.  From 1954 to 2003, Benfica played at the previous Estádio da Luz, the largest stadium in Europe and the third largest in the world in terms of capacity at the time. It was demolished and the new stadium was built in 2003. , Benfica have played at the Estádio da Luz (officially named Estádio do Sport Lisboa e Benfica), located in Lisbon, Portugal. The stadium has a capacity of 65,647 spectators;   64,642 in Primeira Liga matches.  , A UEFA category four stadium ,  the current Estádio da Luz hosted several matches of the UEFA Euro 2004 , including the final . On 20 March 2012, the stadium was designated the venue for the 2014 UEFA Champions League Final , which was played on 24 May.  , The Museu Benfica – Cosme Damião , located near the stadium, was inaugurated on 26 July 2013 and opened to the public three days later on 29 July.  It was considered the Best Portuguese Museum of 2014.   , The supporters of Benfica are known as Benfiquistas . They call the club o Glorioso (the Glorious One) hence the popular chant "Glorioso SLB". , Due to the success and popularity of its football team and other sports , Benfica has built the biggest fanbase in Portugal  with an estimated 5,8 million fans (historically 6 million),   and one of the biggest in the world with an estimated 14 million fans spread across Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, and South America.   In some countries, Benfica has supporters' clubs – Casas do Benfica (Benfica Houses) – which are places where Benfiquistas can meet and watch Benfica games.  , Benfica is the European club with the biggest percentage of supporters in its own country (47%)  and has the eighteenth highest average attendance of European football clubs , which is the highest in Portugal.  , The members of Benfica, who are called sócios , democratically elect the club president for a four-year term by voting in each candidate list, forming the highest governing body of the club. They also participate in the general assemblies (if they are shareholders), submit proposals, take part in discussions, and so forth. They can be elected for the governing bodies, to be designated for positions or functions at the club, etc.  Benfica started to have elections before Portugal's transition to democracy ,  and in 2003 it became the first club in the world to use electronic voting .  , On 9 November 2006, Benfica set the Guinness World Record for "the most widely supported football club", with 160,398 paid-up members.  As of 2015 [update] , Benfica is the biggest club in the world in membership terms, with 270,000 members.   , The Derby da Capital is the most important football derby in Portugal. It is played between the Lisbon teams of Benfica and Sporting, and is followed worldwide, especially in the former Portuguese colonies . , The rivalry between Benfica and FC Porto comes about as Lisbon and Porto are the largest Portuguese cities, respectively. They are the most successful teams in Portugal. , Benfica have had a total of three kit manufacturers since 1977, and eleven shirt sponsors since 1984.    , The club's first kit manufacturer was Adidas from 1977 to 1990 (thirteen seasons), and the first shirt sponsor was Shell from 1984 to 1987 (three seasons). Fábrica Nacional de Ar Condicionado (FNAC) was the next sponsor until 1992 (five seasons). Two years before, in 1990, kit manufacturer changed to Hummel , until 1994 (four seasons) along with Casino Estoril sponsor since 1992 (two seasons). , In 1994, both the kit manufacturer and shirt sponsor changed, the former changed to Olympic until 1997 (three seasons) and the latter changed to Parmalat until 1996 (two seasons). Then, Telecel sponsored Benfica until 2000 (four seasons). Three years before, in 1997, Adidas started manufacturing the kit again until the present day. , In 2000–01, the shirt was sponsored by Netc (netcetera). In 2001–02, the shirt sponsor was shared between Telecel and Vodafone . The following year, Vodafone continued to be the sponsor until 2005 (four seasons). Then, Portugal Telecom (PT) was the sponsor for the next three seasons. In 2008, shirt sponsor changed to TMN also for three seasons. In 2012, MEO became the shirt sponsor until 2015, again three seasons.  , On 19 April 2014, it was announced that Benfica and Adidas had renewed the previous ten-season contract of 2003 until 2021.  , On 19 May 2015, Emirates signed a three-year shirt sponsorship deal with Benfica, worth up to €30 million, to become its main jersey sponsor until 2018.   , Benfica TV is a sports television network created and operated by Benfica, which includes two premium channels available in high-definition. BTV1 live broadcasts Benfica home matches in Primeira Liga, Benfica B and Farense in Segunda Liga , youth department , and other sports, including the youth levels. BTV2 broadcasts live matches of Premier League and Greek Super League . It also airs the Ultimate Fighting Championship . , Moreover, the club publishes the weekly newspaper O Benfica and the bimonthly magazine Mística . , Sport Lisboa e Benfica – Futebol, SAD (a public limited company )  was created by João Vale e Azevedo on 10 February 2000 with an initial equity of €75 million.   There were five major reasons for creating an autonomous entity to manage the professional football team:  , Benfica SAD entered the PSI-20 on 21 May 2007  with an initial stock value of €5 on 15,000,001 shares. On 15 June 2007, Joe Berardo launched an initial public offering of Benfica SAD for €3.50 a share.  On 23 December 2009, Benfica SAD, after a vote of its members, decided to increase the equity to €115 million by absorbing Benfica Estádio, SA. The initial equity of €75 million was by then completely lost, when the SAD was in balance sheet insolvency. This increase in equity meant that more than 7,999,999 were on the stock market . Benfica valued them at €5 each. They were admitted to the stock market on 14 June 2012.  In Portugal, companies in the stock market index are obligated to provide information to their shareholders and the Portuguese Securities Market Commission , and every semester a more detailed report is published.  In 2009–10, the SAD posted losses of €11.3 million, an improvement from the nearly €30 million loss in 2008–09 . In 2010–11, Benfica continued in the red, posting losses of €7.6 million,  even after the sale of David Luiz to Chelsea.  In 2011–12, SAD posted losses of €11.7 million,  after earning €20 million from the UEFA Champions League,  €30 million for Fábio Coentrão ,  and €8.6 million for Roberto .  In 2012–13, SAD posted losses of €10.3 million and generated a club record €51.5 million with the sales of Javi García and Axel Witsel for a total revenue of more than €145 million.  On 31 July 2014, the SAD completed the acquisition of Benfica Stars Fund by spending around €28.9 million for 85%, purchasing the remaining economic rights of nine players, which belonged to the fund.   In 2013–14, SAD posted profits of €14.1 million, the total revenue was of €185 million with expenses of €151 million, both a club record. It was the first record profit since 2006–07.  The club was praised for its transfer policy between 2007 and 2014.  , Benfica is ranked as the twenty-sixth richest football club , with an annual revenue of €126 million,  and the fortieth most valuable football brand, valued at €85 million.  , Eusébio is the all-time top goalscorer with 474 goals in 440 matches. Nené has the most official appearances overall (575). Luisão has the most appearances in European matches and is the captain with most matches.  Cosme Damião is the longest-serving manager (18 years). Jorge Jesus is the manager with most titles (10).  , Benfica became the first team in Portuguese league history to complete two 30-game seasons without defeat, namely the 1972–73 and 1977–78 seasons. In the former, they achieved two records: 58 points in 30 matches, the most ever obtained (96.7% efficiency), and the largest difference of points ever between champions and runners-up (18 points) in a two-points-per-win system.  , Benfica holds the European record for the most consecutive wins in domestic league (29), between 1971–72 and 1972–73,  as well the record for the longest unbeaten run in domestic league (56), from 24 October 1976 to 1 September 1978.   , In the 1965–66 European Cup , Benfica scored 18 goals against Stade Dudelange and achieved the highest goal margin on aggregate in European football  and their biggest win in UEFA competitions.  , In UEFA Europa League, Benfica was the first club to reach two finals consecutively, the latter without defeat, which is a record.  , The table below shows the last 10 completed seasons. , As of 29 May 2015 [update] , Benfica have won a record 34 Primeira Liga, a record 25 Taça de Portugal (and 4 consecutively), a record 6 Taça da Liga (and 4 consecutively), 5 Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira, 3 Campeonato de Portugal (73 domestic titles), and 2 European Cup (75 overall titles).    , In 2014, they achieved an unprecedented treble of Primeira Liga, Taça de Portugal, and Taça da Liga.   They also won the Supertaça,   becoming the only club to have won all four domestic titles in a year. It is also the only club to have won the Primeira Liga and Taça da Liga, moreover, three times. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , On 27 January 2004, the club decided to retire the squad number 29 in memory of Miklós Fehér, who died while playing for Benfica on 25 January 2004.    , Source: S.L. Benfica , Active teams , Defunct teams  Nottingham Forest Football Club is a football club in Nottinghamshire , England that currently plays in the Football League Championship . The club, often referred to simply as Forest or Nott'm Forest have played home matches at the City Ground since 1898. , Founded in 1865, Forest were founder members of the Football Alliance in 1889 and joined the Football League in 1892. Forest won the FA Cup in 1898 and 1959 . Their most successful period was under the management of Brian Clough between 1975 and 1993, winning the League , back to back European Cups , four League Cups and two Full Members Cups . In recent years the club have fallen on harder times, and have been outside the Premier League since 1999 . , , , Nottingham Forest F.C. was founded in 1865 by a group of Bandy and Shinty players,  as Nottingham Forest Football and Bandy Club  shortly after their neighbours Notts County , thought to be the world's oldest surviving professional association football club, in 1862. They joined the Football Alliance in 1889 and won the competition in 1892.  They then entered to The Football League . In 1890, Forest moved to the Town Ground , playing in the first ever match to use goal nets.  , Forest claimed their first major honour when they won the 1898 FA Cup , beating Derby County 3–1 at Crystal Palace.  The club spent most of the first half of the twentieth century in the Second Division . In 1949, they were relegated to the Third Division but were promoted two years later as champions.  , Forest regained First Division status in 1957 and won the FA Cup for a second time in 1959 , defeating Luton Town at Wembley .  , After being runners-up in the League and FA Cup semi-finalists in 1967, Forest were relegated from the First Division in 1972 after a 15-year stay.  , Despite their two FA Cup wins and a runners-up finish in the top flight as recently as 1967, Forest were generally considered an underachieving club by English league standards until the mid-1970s, when Brian Clough and his assistant Peter Taylor took the helm at the club, shortly after Clough's highly colourful, very controversial and ultimately disastrous 44-day tenure as manager of Leeds United . Clough became the most successful manager in the history of Nottingham Forest, taking them to unprecedented heights. He had won the league title with Forest's neighbours Derby County in 1972, and came to Nottingham Forest on 6 January 1975, after a 0–2 home defeat by Notts County, on Boxing Day, prompted the committee (Forest had no board of directors then) to sack the previous manager Allan Brown. Clough's first game in charge was the third round FA Cup replay against Tottenham Hotspur , a 1–0 victory thanks to a goal by Scottish centre-forward Neil Martin . , Nottingham Forest won promotion to the top division at the end of the 1976–77 season after finishing third in the Second Division , but no-one could have predicted how successful Clough's team would be over the next three seasons. Nottingham Forest became one of the few teams (and the most recent team to date) to win the English First Division Championship a year after winning promotion from the English Second Division ( 1977–78 season ). [ nb 1 ] In 1978–79 , Forest went on to win the European Cup by beating Malmö 1–0 in Munich's Olympiastadion and retained the trophy in 1979–80 , beating Hamburg 1–0 in Madrid, at the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium , thanks to an outstanding performance by goalkeeper Peter Shilton , signed from Stoke City early in the 1977-78 season. They also won the European Super Cup and two League Cups . Beside Shilton, key players of that era included right-back Viv Anderson (the first black player to play for the England national team ), midfielder Martin O'Neill ; striker Trevor Francis (English football's first million-pound player on his arrival at Forest in February 1979) and a trio of Scottish internationals: winger John Robertson , midfielder Archie Gemmill and defender Kenny Burns . The club reached the semi-finals of the UEFA Cup in 1983–84 but were knocked out by Anderlecht in controversial circumstances. More than a decade later, it emerged that in the second leg, the Belgian club had bribed the referee but the referee in question had since died in a car accident and was hence not able to be held to account.  , Nottingham Forest's next major trophies came in 1989 when they won the Football League Cup and the Full Members Cup . For most of the season they had been competing for all three English cup competitions available at the time, but their hopes of a unique cup treble ended when they lost to Liverpool in the replay of the FA Cup semi-final, originally held at Hillsborough , where 96 Liverpool fans were crushed to death on terracing, the match was abandoned after six minutes. They also finished third in the league in 1989, and had occupied the same final position a year later, although they had never looked like serious title contenders in either campaign; Liverpool had been runaway leaders for most of the 1987-88 season , and Forest had been table at Christmas the following campaign before climbing into the division's upper reaches with their strong post-Christmas form. By the end of the 1980s, Forest's European Cup winning stars were all long gone, and their new stars included high-scoring midfielder Neil Webb (sold to Manchester United for a million-plus fee in July 1989), left-back Stuart Pearce , central defender Des Walker and striker Nigel Clough (son of Brian Clough). , Clough's side retained the League Cup in 1990 when they beat Oldham Athletic 1–0; the winning goal scored by Nigel Jemson. There was chance for more success in 1991 when Forest reached their only FA Cup final under Brian Clough and went ahead after scoring an early goal against Tottenham Hotspur at Wembley , but ended up losing 2–1 in extra time after an own goal by Des Walker . In Forest's team that day was young Irish midfielder Roy Keane , who had joined the club the previous summer. , In the summer of 1991, Brian Clough broke Forest's transfer record fee by signing the league's top scorer, Millwall striker Teddy Sheringham , for £2.1million. , Forest beat Southampton 3–2 in the Full Members Cup final in 1992, but then lost to Manchester United in the League Cup in the same season, both finals being played by a Forest team much weakened by injuries. This meant that Forest had played in six cup finals in four seasons, winning four of them. , Forest finished eighth in the league that season to take a place in the new FA Premier League , but their prospects of succeeding in the new league were hit by the pre-season loss of players like Des Walker and Darren Wassall , and the sale of Teddy Sheringham a few games into the new season. , Brian Clough's 18-year reign as manager ended in May 1993 after Forest were relegated from the inaugural Premier League after 16 illustrious years of top-flight football which had seen a league title, two European Cups and four League Cups. Relegation from the Premier League was also followed by the departure of midfielder Roy Keane to Manchester United for a British record fee of £3.75million. , Frank Clark , who had been a left-back in Nottingham Forest's 1979 European Cup winning team, returned to the club in May 1993 to succeed Brian Clough as manager. His management career had previously seen promotion from the Fourth Division with Leyton Orient in 1989 as his greatest distinction. Making key signings including Stan Collymore, Colin Cooper, Lars Bohinen, and convincing Stuart Pearce to remain at the club, Clark was able to achieve a return to the Premier League when the club finished Division One runners-up at the end of the 1993–94 season.  Forest finished third in 1994–95  and qualified for the UEFA Cup – their first entry to European competition in the post- Heysel era. Despite the pre-season loss of striker Stan Collymore to Liverpool for a national record fee of £8.5million, Forest did reach the quarter-finals, the furthest an English team reached in UEFA competitions that season, although they slipped to ninth position in the league. The 1996–97 season quickly became a relegation battle and Clark left the club in December.  , 34-year-old captain Stuart Pearce was installed as player-manager on a temporary basis just before Christmas in 1996 and he inspired a brief upturn in the club's fortunes. However, in March 1997 he was replaced on a permanent basis by Dave Bassett and left the club that summer after 12 years.  Forest were unable to avoid relegation and finished the season in bottom place.  They won promotion back to the Premier League at the first attempt, being crowned Division One champions in 1997–98.  Bassett was sacked in January 1999, with Ron Atkinson replacing him.  , Ron Atkinson was unable to prevent Forest from once again slipping back into Division One, and announced his retirement from football management when Forest's relegation was confirmed on 24 April 1999, with three weeks of the Premier League seasons still to play. , Former England captain David Platt succeeded Atkinson and spent approximately £12 million on players in the space of two seasons, including the Italian veterans Moreno Mannini , Salvatore Matrecano and Gianluca Petrachi .  However, Forest could only finish 14th in Platt's first season and 10th in his second. He departed in July 2001 to manage the England U-21 side and was succeeded by youth team manager Paul Hart . ,  Now faced with huge debts, which reduced Forest's ability to sign new players, they finished 16th in Hart's first season in charge.  By December 2001, Forest were reported as losing over £100,000 every week,  and their financial outlook was worsened by the collapse of ITV Digital , which left Forest and many other Football League clubs in severe financial difficulties.  Despite the off-field difficulties, Forest finished 2002–03 in sixth place  and qualified for the play-offs , where they lost to Sheffield United in the semi-finals. A poor league run the following season, following the loss of several key players, led to the sacking of Hart in February 2004 with Forest in danger of relegation.  The decision was unpopular with certain quarters of the fanbase and Hart was described as a 'scapegoat'.  , Joe Kinnear was subsequently appointed and led the club to a secure 14th place in the final league table.  The 2004–05 season saw Forest drop into the relegation zone once more, leading to Kinnear's resignation in December 2004.  Mick Harford took temporary charge of Forest over Christmas, before Gary Megson was appointed in the new year. Megson had already won two promotions to the Premier League with his previous club West Bromwich Albion , having arrived at the club when they were in danger of going down to Division Two, but failed to stave off relegation as the club ended the season second from bottom in 23rd place,  becoming the first European Cup-winners ever to fall into their domestic third division.  , In Forest's first season in the English third tier in 54 years, a 3–0 defeat at Oldham Athletic  in February 2006 led to the departure of Megson by "mutual consent" leaving the club mid-table only four points above the relegation zone.  Frank Barlow and Ian McParland took temporary charge for the remainder of the 2005–06 season, engineering a six-match winning run and remaining unbeaten in ten games, the most notable result a 7–1 win over Swindon Town .  Forest took 28 points from a possible 39 under the two, narrowly missing out on a play-off place, as they finished in 7th place.  , Colin Calderwood , previously of Northampton Town , was appointed as Forest's new manager in May 2006. He was their 12th new manager to be appointed since the retirement of Brian Clough 13 years earlier, and went onto to become Forest's longest-serving manager since Frank Clark. The Calderwood era was ultimately one of rebuilding, and included the club's first promotion in a decade. In his first season he led the club to the play-offs, having squandered a 7-point lead at the top of League One which had been amassed by November 2006. Forest eventually succumbed to a shock 5–4 aggregate defeat in the semi-finals against Yeovil Town ; they had taken a 2-0 lead in the first leg at Huish Park , but were then beaten 5-2 on their own soil by the Somerset club.  Calderwood achieved automatic promotion in his second year at the club, following an impressive run which saw Forest win six out of their last seven games of the season, culminating in a dramatic final 3–2 win against Yeovil at the City Ground . Forest kept a league record of 24 clean sheets out of 46 games, proving to be the foundation for their return to the second tier of English football and leaving them just one more promotion away from a return to the Premier League. , However, Calderwood's side struggled to adapt to life in the Championship in the 2008–09 campaign and having been unable to steer Forest out of the relegation zone, Calderwood was sacked following a Boxing Day 4–2 defeat to the Championship's bottom club Doncaster Rovers .  , Under the temporary stewardship of John Pemberton , Forest finally climbed out of the relegation zone, having beaten Norwich City 3–2.  Billy Davies , who taken Forest's local rivals Derby County into the Premier League two seasons earlier, was confirmed as the new manager on 1 January 2009  and watched Pemberton's side beat Manchester City 3–0 away in the FA Cup ,  prior to taking official charge. Under Davies, Forest stretched their unbeaten record in all competitions following Calderwood's sacking to six matches, including five wins. He also helped them avoid relegation as they finished 19th in the Championship ,  securing survival with one game to go. , Forest spent most of the 2009–10 campaign in a top-three position, putting together an unbeaten run of 20 league games, winning 12 home league games in a row (a club record for successive home wins in a single season), going unbeaten away from home from the beginning of the season until 30 January 2010 (a run spanning 13 games) whilst also claiming memorable home victories over local rivals Derby County and Leicester City . The club finished third, missing out on automatic promotion, and in the two-legged play-off semi-final were beaten by Blackpool , 2–1 away and 4–3 in the home leg, the club's first defeat at home since losing to the same opposition in September 2009. , The 2010–11 season saw Forest finish in sixth place in the Championship table with 75 points,  putting them into a play-off campaign for the fourth time in the space of eight years. Promotion was yet again to elude Forest, as they were beaten over two legs by eventual play off final winners Swansea City . Having drawn the first leg 0–0 at the City Ground,  they were eventually beaten 3–1 in the second leg.  , In June 2011 Billy Davies 's contract was terminated,   and he was replaced as manager by Steve McClaren , who signed a three-year contract.   Forest started the 2011–12 season with several poor results and after a 5–1 defeat away to Burnley , David Pleat and Bill Beswick left the club's coaching setup.  Less than a week later, following a home defeat to Birmingham City McClaren resigned, and chairman Nigel Doughty announced that he intended to resign at the end of the season.  In October 2011, Nottingham Forest underwent several changes. These changes included the appointment of Frank Clark as new chairman of the club and also that of Steve Cotterill , replacing the recently departed Steve McClaren .  , Nigel Doughty , owner and previous chairman of the club, died on 4 February 2012, having been involved with the club since the late 1990s, with many estimating his total contribution as being in the region of £100million.  , The Al-Hasawi family, from Kuwait, purchased the club and became the new owners of Nottingham Forest in July 2012. , The Al-Hasawi family told press that they had a long-term vision for the club based around a 3–5-year plan, and after interviewing several potential new managers, appointed Sean O'Driscoll , formerly manager at Doncaster Rovers and Crawley Town, as the manager on 19 July 2012 after a second round of talks with the then Crawley man. He was known for playing an attractive brand of passing football (which had taken Doncaster Rovers into the league's second tier for the first time since the 1950s) and what football fans would consider the Forest way.  O'Driscoll had spent 5 months at the City Ground as Coach under Steve Cotterill in the 2011–12 season before taking over at Crawley. After taking over at Crawley, O'Driscoll never took charge of a single competitive game. , By 15 December 2012, after the team's 0–0 draw away at Brighton, Forest sat in 9th position with 33 points, just 3 points off the play-off positions. The Al-Hasawi's 3–5-year plan had turned into a push for the play-offs in their first season as the Nottingham Forest owners. On the same weekend, the club announced that Omar Al-Hasawi had stepped down due to personal reasons and Fawaz Al-Hasawi, the majority shareholder with 75% stepped into the position,  with his brother Abdulaziz Al-Hasawi holding a 20% share and his cousin Omar Al-Hasawi holding a 5% share. , On Boxing Day 2012 manager Sean O'Driscoll was sacked following a 4–2 victory over Leeds United with the club stating their intentions of a change ahead of the January transfer window and hopes of appointing a manager with Premiership experience.  The man to replace O'Driscoll was Alex McLeish .  The move was criticised by some members of the Forest fan base.  Chief executive Mark Arthur as well as scout Keith Burt and club ambassador Frank Clark were dismissed in January 2013.  On 5 February 2013 Nottingham Forest and Alex McLeish had parted company by mutual agreement, just 40 days after McLeish took charge of Forest.  Forest supporters and pundits alike registered their concern for the state of the club,  with journalist Pat Murphy describing the situation as a "shambles".  , Two days after McLeish's departure, the club re-appointed Billy Davies as manager, having been sacked as the team's manager twenty months previously.  His first match in charge was a draw,  followed by a run of 10 undefeated games. In March 2014 the club terminated Davies' employment, following a 5–0 defeat by Derby County.  Neil Warnock turned down the job as Forest manager on the day Davies was sacked. After initially rejecting the job in March 2014,  fans favourite Stuart Pearce was named the man to replace Billy Davies, taking over from caretaker manager Gary Brazil . He signed a two-year contract commencing on 1 July 2014. Pearce led Forest to an unbeaten start to the season but failed to keep up the form. He was sacked in February 2015 and replaced by another former Forest player, Dougie Freedman . Another mid table finish means that Forest will begin the 2015-16 season still in the Championship and now in their 17th season away from the Premier League. , Nottingham Forest has worn red since the club’s foundation in 1865. At the meeting in the Clinton Arms which established Nottingham Forest as a football club, the committee also passed a resolution that the team colours should be ‘ Garibaldi red’.  This decision was made in honour of Giuseppe Garibaldi, the Italian patriot who was the leader of the redshirts party. At this time, clubs identified themselves more by their headgear than their shirts and a dozen red caps with tassels were duly purchased, making Forest the first club to ‘officially’ wear red, a colour that has since been adopted by a significant number of others. Forest is the reason behind Arsenal 's choice of red, having donated a full set of red kits following Arsenal's foundation in 1886. Forest's tour of South America in 1905 inspired Independiente to adopt red as their club colour, after the Argentine club's President Arístides Langone described the tourists as looking like diabolos rojos ("red devils"), which would become Independiente's nickname.  , The first club crest used by Forest was the city arms of Nottingham, which was first used on kits in 1947.  The current club badge was introduced in 1974.  The logo has been reported as being the brainchild of manager Brian Clough .  However, he did not arrive at the club until the year after. Forest have two stars above the club badge to commemorate the European Cup victories in 1979 and 1980.  , The club has garnered many nicknames over time. Historically, the nickname of "Foresters" was used,  as was "Garibaldis".  "The Forest"  or the simpler "Forest" – as used on the club crest – is commonly used, as is "the Reds". Another, lesser-used, nickname referring to the club is the "Tricky Trees".   Nottingham Forest is occasionally referred to as Notts Forest. This moniker has been used for a long time, in local, national and international media, much to the intense annoyance of Forest fans.      , The City Ground is a football stadium in the West Bridgford area of Nottingham, Nottinghamshire, England, on the banks of the River Trent. It has been home to Nottingham Forest Football Club since 1898, and has an all-seated capacity of 30,602. The stadium was a venue when England hosted Euro 96, and is only three hundred yards away from Meadow Lane, home of Forest's neighbouring club Notts County; the two grounds are the closest professional football stadia in England and the second closest in the United Kingdom after the grounds of Dundee F.C. and Dundee United. They are located on opposite sides of the River Trent, with Forest's City Ground actually outside the city boundary, in the county of Nottinghamshire. The area where it stands was part of the City of Nottingham up to the early 1950s when an exchange of land took place between the City and the County for the building of the Clifton Council house estate, also south of the River Trent. It was named The City Ground to commemorate the granting of City status to Nottingham in 1897. Ironically, and somewhat counter-intuitively, Notts County's Meadow Lane ground actually is located within the City boundary, despite the club officially representing the county. The City Ground is the 24th largest club football ground in England. , Whilst Notts County is the closest professional football club geographically, Forest have remained at least one division higher since the 1994–95 season and the club's fiercest rivalry is with Derby County, located 14 miles away.  The two clubs contest the East Midlands derby , a fixture which has taken on even greater significance since the inception of the Brian Clough Trophy in 2007. Leicester City are Forest's other East Midlands rival due to the close proximity of the two cities. , Forest's other regional rival is Sheffield United , based in the neighbouring county of South Yorkshire , a rivalry which has roots in the UK miners' strike 1984-85 when the miners of South Yorkshire walked out on long strikes but the Notts Miners, who insisted on holding a ballot, continued to work. The exciting 2003 Football League Championship Play-off semi final between the two clubs, in which Sheffield United finished as 5–4 aggregate winners, also fuelled the rivalry. , Forest's fanbase includes a host of celebrity supporters, including England international cricketer Stuart Broad ,  boxer Carl Froch ,   golfers Lee Westwood  and Oliver Wilson ,  footballers Alex Baptiste  Tom Cairney ,  Shaun Barker  and Patrick Bamford ,  Doctor Who actor Matt Smith ,  politicians Kenneth Clarke , Dan Jarvis and Michael Dugher ,    Manic Street Preachers singer James Dean Bradfield ,   actor Jason Statham ,  Brazilian football manager Luiz Felipe Scolari ,  actor Joe Dempsie ,  artist and musician David Shrigley ,  comedian Matt Forde ,  skater Christopher Dean , TV & radio presenter Richard Bacon ,  The Pogues guitarist Phil Chevron ,  actress Su Pollard  and actor Arsher Ali .  , , Information from club website and The Times newspaper   , Current continuous longest-serving player: Chris Cohen , Signed July 2007 - present. 8 Seasons Continuous Service , Current total longest-serving player: Andy Reid , signed November 2000 - August 2004 (5 Seasons), re-signed July 2011 - present (4 Seasons). 9 Seasons Total Service , Highest attendance: 49,946 Vs. Manchester United in Division 1, 28 October 1967 , Lowest attendance: 4,030 Vs. Morecambe F.C. in the Football League Cup , 13 August 2008 , Record receipts: £499,099 Vs. FC Bayern Munich in UEFA Cup quarter final 2nd leg, 19 March 1996 , Longest sequence of league wins: 7, wins from 9 May 1922 to 1 September 1922 , Longest sequence of league defeats: 14, losses from 21 March 1913 to 27 September 1913 , Longest sequence of unbeaten league matches: 42, from 26 November 1977 to 25 November 1978 , Longest sequence of league games without a win: 19, from 8 September 1998 to 16 January 1999 , Longest sequence of league games without a goal: 7, 13 December 2003 to 7 February 2004 and 26 November 2011 to 31 December 2011 , Quickest goal: League: 14 seconds,  Jack Lester vs Norwich City , 8 March 2000 , League Cup: 23 seconds,  Paul Smith vs Leicester City , 18 September 2007 in the League Cup .¹ , First Football League game: 3 September 1892 vs. Everton (away), 2–2 , Record win (in all competitions): 14–0, Vs. Clapton (away), 1st round FA Cup , 17 January 1891 , Record defeat (in all competitions): 1–9, Vs. Blackburn Rovers , Division 2, 10 April 1937 , Most league points in one season (2 points for a win): 70, Division 3 South, 1950–51 , Most league points in one season: (3 points for a win): 94, Division 1, 1997–98 , Most league goals in one season: 110, Division 3, 1950–51 , Highest league scorer in one season: Wally Ardron , 36, Division 3 (South), 1950–51 , Most internationally capped player: Peter Shilton , 125 for England , Most internationally capped outfield player: Stuart Pearce , 76 for England (78 total) , Youngest league player: Craig Westcarr , 16 years, Vs. Burnley 13 October 2001 , ¹ By agreement with Leicester City . The game was a replay as the original match three weeks previous was abandoned at half time, due to the collapse of Leicester player Clive Clarke , with Forest leading 1–0.  ,  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , , In 1997 and 1998, as part of the release of the book The Official History of Nottingham Forest , a vote was carried out to decide on the club's official All Time XI.  , Board of directors , Technical staff  Redirect to:  The Celtic Football Club ( / ˈ s ɛ l t ɪ k / ) are a professional football club based in Glasgow , Scotland who play in the Scottish Premiership . Since playing their first game in 1888, Celtic have never been relegated . Celtic have a long-standing rivalry with Rangers ; the two clubs are collectively known as the Old Firm . , Celtic have won the Scottish League Championship on 46 occasions, most recently in the 2014–15 season , the Scottish Cup 36 times and the Scottish League Cup 15 times. The club's greatest season was 1966–67, when Celtic became the first British team   to win the European Cup , also winning the Scottish League Championship , the Scottish Cup , the Scottish League Cup , and the Glasgow Cup . Celtic also reached the 1970 European Cup Final , and the 2003 UEFA Cup Final .    , , , Celtic Football Club was formally constituted at a meeting in St. Mary's church hall in East Rose Street (now Forbes Street), Calton, Glasgow , by Irish Marist Brother Walfrid  on 6 November 1887, with the purpose of alleviating poverty in the East End of Glasgow by raising money for the charity Walfrid had instituted, the Poor Children's Dinner Table .  Walfrid's move to establish the club as a means of fund-raising was largely inspired by the example of Hibernian who were formed out of the immigrant Irish population a few years earlier in Edinburgh . Walfrid's own suggestion of the name 'Celtic' (pronounced Seltik ), was intended to reflect the club's Irish and Scottish roots, and was adopted at the same meeting. The club has the official nickname, " The Bhoys ". However, according to the Celtic press office, the newly established club was known to many as "the bold boys". A postcard from the early 20th century that pictured the team, and read "The Bould Bhoys", is the first known example of the unique spelling. The extra h imitates the spelling system of Gaelic, where the letter b is often accompanied by the letter h. , On 28 May 1888, Celtic played their first official match against Rangers and won 5–2 in what was described as a "friendly encounter".  Neil McCallum scored Celtic's first ever goal. The squad that played that day was largely composed of players signed from Hibernian . Celtic's first kit consisted of a white shirt with a green collar, black shorts, and emerald green socks. The original club crest was a simple green cross on a red oval background. , In 1889 Celtic reached the final of the Scottish Cup , this was their first season in the competition, but lost 2–1 in the final. Celtic again reached the final of the Scottish Cup in 1892, but this time were victorious after defeating Queen's Park 5–2 in the final. Several months later the club moved to its new ground, Celtic Park , and in the following season won the Scottish League Championship for the first ever time.  In 1895, Celtic set the League record for the highest home score when they beat Dundee 11–0.  , In 1897, the club became a Private limited company and Willie Maley was appointed as the first 'secretary- manager '. Between 1905 and 1910, Celtic won the Scottish League Championship six times in a row.  In both 1907 and 1908 Celtic also won the Scottish Cup , this was the first time a Scottish club had ever won the Double .  During World War I , Celtic won the league four times in a row, including 62 matches unbeaten between November 1915 and April 1917.   , Ex-player and captain Jimmy McGrory took over in 1945. Under McGrory, Celtic defeated Arsenal , Manchester United and Hibernian to win the Coronation Cup , a one-off tournament held in May 1953 to commemorate the coronation of Elizabeth II . He also led them to a League and Cup double in 1954. On 19 October 1957, Celtic defeated Rangers a record 7–1 in the final of the Scottish League Cup at Hampden Park in Glasgow, retaining the trophy they had won for only the first time the previous year. The scoreline remains a record win in a British domestic cup final. , Former Celtic captain Jock Stein succeeded McGrory in 1965. Stein guided Celtic to nine straight Scottish League wins from 1966 to 1974, equalling the then world record, and a feat which was not matched again in Scotland until 1997. He won the Scottish Cup with Celtic in his first few months at the club, and then led them to the League title the following season. , 1967 was Celtic's annus mirabilis . The club won every competition they entered: the Scottish League , the Scottish Cup , the Scottish League Cup , the Glasgow Cup , and the European Cup. Under the leadership of Stein, the club defeated Inter Milan 2–1 at the Estádio Nacional in Lisbon, on 25 May 1967. Celtic thus became the first British team, and the first from outside Spain, Portugal and Italy to win the competition. They remain the only Scottish team to have reached the final. The players that day subsequently became known as the " Lisbon Lions ". Jimmy Johnstone , Bobby Lennox and Bobby Murdoch formed part of that famous team, and now rank among the greatest ever Celtic players. The following year Celtic lost to Racing Club of Argentina in the Intercontinental Cup . , Celtic reached the European Cup Final again in 1970, but were beaten 2–1 by Feyenoord at the San Siro in Milan. The club continued to dominate Scottish football in the early 1970s, and their Scottish Championship win in 1974 was their ninth consecutive league title, equalling the joint world record held at the time by MTK Budapest and CSKA Sofia.  Celtic enjoyed further domestic success in the 1980s, and in their Centenary season of 1987–88 won a Scottish League Championship and Scottish Cup double. , The club endured a slump in the early 1990s, culminating in the Bank of Scotland informing Celtic on 3 March 1994 that it was calling in the receivers as a result of the club exceeding a £5 million overdraft . However, expatriate businessman Fergus McCann wrested control of the club, and ousted the family dynasties which had controlled Celtic since its foundation. According to media reports, McCann took over the club minutes before it was to be declared bankrupt.  McCann reconstituted the club business as a public limited company  – Celtic PLC – and oversaw the redevelopment of Celtic Park into a 60,832 all-seater stadium. In 1998, under Dutchman Wim Jansen Celtic won the title again and prevented Rangers from beating Celtic's 9-in-a-row record.  , Martin O'Neill , a former European Cup winner with Nottingham Forest , took charge of the club in June 2000.  Under his leadership, Celtic won three SPL championships out of five  and in his first season in charge, the club also won the domestic treble,  making O'Neill only the second Celtic manager to do so after Jock Stein.  , In 2003, around 80,000 Celtic fans travelled to watch the club compete in the UEFA Cup Final in Seville .   Celtic lost 3–2 to FC Porto after extra time, despite two goals from Henrik Larsson during normal time.  The exemplary conduct of the thousands of travelling Celtic supporters received widespread praise from the people of Seville (not one supporter was arrested) and the fans were awarded prestigious Fair Play Awards from both FIFA and UEFA "for their extraordinarily loyal and sporting behaviour".   , Gordon Strachan was announced as O'Neill's replacement in June 2005 and after winning the SPL title in his first year in charge,  he became only the third Celtic manager to win three titles in a row. He also guided Celtic to their first UEFA Champions League knockout stage in 2006–07  and repeated the feat in 2007–08  before departing the club in May 2009, after failing to win the SPL title .  Tony Mowbray took charge of the club in June 2009,  and he was succeeded a year later by Neil Lennon .  In November 2010, Celtic set a Scottish Premier League record for the biggest win in SPL history defeating Aberdeen 9–0 at Celtic Park.  , Celtic celebrated their 125th anniversary in November 2012, the same week as their UEFA Champions League match against Barcelona .  Celtic won 2–1 on the night to complete a memorable week,  and eventually qualified from the group stages for the last 16 round.  Celtic finished the season with League and Scottish Cup double.  , Celtic clinched their third consecutive league title in March 2014,  with goalkeeper Fraser Forster setting a new record during the campaign of 1256 minutes without conceding a goal in a league match.  At the end of the season, manager Neil Lennon announced his departure from the club after four years in the role.  , Norwegian Ronny Deila was appointed manager of Celtic on 6 June 2014.   He signed a 12-month rolling contract with the club.  , For Celtic's first season they wore a white top with black shorts and black and green hooped socks. This kit featured a green Celtic cross inside a red circle. Next season they changed to a green and white vertically striped top and for the next fourteen years this remained unchanged. In 1903 Celtic adopted their famous green and white hooped tops.  , Celtic's stadium is Celtic Park , which is in the Parkhead area of Glasgow . Celtic Park, an all-seater stadium with a capacity of 60,411,  is the largest football stadium in Scotland and the seventh-largest stadium in the United Kingdom, after Murrayfield , Old Trafford , Twickenham , Wembley , the London 2012 Olympic Stadium and the Millennium Stadium . It is commonly known as Parkhead  or Paradise.   , Celtic first laid out a ground in the Parkhead area in 1888.  The club moved to a different site in 1892, however, when the rental charge was greatly increased.  The new site was developed into an oval shaped stadium, with vast terracing sections.  The record attendance of 83,500 was set by an Old Firm derby on 1 January 1938.  The terraces were covered and floodlights were installed between 1957 and 1971.  The Taylor Report mandated that all major clubs should have an all-seated stadium by August 1994.  Celtic was in a bad financial position in the early 1990s and no major work was carried out until Fergus McCann took control of the club in March 1994. He carried out a plan to demolish the old terraces and develop a new stadium in a phased rebuild, which was completed in August 1998. The total cost of the new stadium was £40 million. , For the 1994–95 season Celtic played at the national stadium Hampden Park , this cost the club £500,000 in rent.  Celtic Park has often been used as a venue for Scotland internationals and Cup Finals, particularly when Hampden Park has been unavailable.  Before the First World War , Celtic Park hosted various other sporting events, including composite rules shinty-hurling ,  track and field and the 1897 Track Cycling World Championships .  Open-air masses ,  and First World War recruitment drives have also been held there.  Celtic Park has occasionally been used for concerts, including performances by The Who and U2 .  , In 2003 Celtic were estimated to have a fan base of nine million people, including one million in the USA and Canada.  There are over 160 Celtic Supporters Clubs in over 20 countries around the world.  , In 2003, an estimated 80,000 Celtic supporters, many without match tickets, travelled to Seville in Spain for the UEFA Cup Final ,    The club's fans subsequently received awards from UEFA and FIFA for their behaviour at the match.     , In the 2010–11 season , Celtic had the highest average home attendance of any Scottish club.  They also had the 12th highest average attendance out of all the football clubs in Europe . , In October 2013, French football magazine So Foot published a list of whom they considered the 'best' football supporters in the world. Celtic fans were placed third, the only British supporters on the list, with the magazine highlighting their rendition of You'll Never Walk Alone before the start of European ties at Celtic Park.  , Celtic's traditional rivals are Rangers ; collectively, the two clubs are known as the Old Firm . The two have dominated Scottish football's history; between them, they have won the Scottish league championship 97 times since its inception in 1890 – all other clubs combined have won 19 championships. The two clubs are also by far the most supported in Scotland, with Celtic having the third highest home attendance in the UK.  Celtic have a historic association with the people of Ireland and Scots of Irish descent, who are both mainly Roman Catholic . Traditionally fans of rivals Rangers came from Scottish or Northern Irish Protestant backgrounds and support British Unionism . , The clubs have attracted the support of opposing factions in the Troubles in Northern Ireland. Some supporters use songs, chants and banners at matches to abuse or show support for the Protestant or Catholic faiths and proclaim support for Northern Irish paramilitary groups such as the IRA and UVF .  , There have been nearly 400 Old Firm matches played as of 2011. The games have been described as having an "atmosphere of hatred, religious tension and intimidation which continues to lead to violence in communities across Scotland."  The rivalry has fuelled many assaults and even deaths on Old Firm Derby days. Admissions to hospital emergency rooms have been reported to increase ninefold over normal levels  and in the period from 1996 to 2003, eight deaths in Glasgow were directly linked to Old Firm matches, and hundreds of assaults.   , Both sets of fans fought an on-pitch battle in the aftermath of Celtic's victory in the 1980 Scottish Cup final at Hampden Park .  There was serious fan disorder during an Old Firm match played in May 1999 at Celtic Park; missiles were thrown by Celtic fans, including one which struck referee Hugh Dallas , who needed medical treatment, and a small number of fans invaded the pitch.  , Celtic have taken measures to reduce sectarianism. In 1996, the club launched its Bhoys Against Bigotry campaign, later followed by Youth Against Bigotry to "educate the young on having ... respect for all aspects of the community – all races, all colours, all creeds".  , In March 2008, UEFA investigated Celtic fans for alleged sectarian singing at a match against Barcelona .  The case was dropped before the end of the month due to a lack of evidence.  , Some groups of Celtic fans express their support for Irish republicanism and the Irish Republican Army by singing or chanting about them at matches.   IRA chanting has been described as being offensive, but opinion is divided on whether they are sectarian.      UEFA head of communications William Gaillard , when talking about the matter in 2006, said that IRA chanting was a nationalist issue and was similar to fans of other clubs, such as Barcelona and Athletic Bilbao , who support nationalist movements in their own countries. He also stated that only in Balkan countries, where some fans show support for organisations that had engaged in ethnic cleansing , was the situation different because these organisations were by their nature discriminatory. He said that this did not apply to the IRA.  , In 2008 and 2010, there were protests by groups of fans over the team wearing the poppy symbol for Remembrance Day .   Celtic expressed disapproval of these protests, saying they were damaging to the image of the club and its fans, and pledged to ban those involved.    , In November 2011 UEFA launched an investigation into Celtic about alleged "illicit chanting" involving pro-IRA songs during their Europa League tie against Rennes on 3 November 2011.  The hearing took place on 9 December 2011,  and the club was fined £ 12,700 for the offence.  Also in November 2011, the Scottish Premier League announced an investigation into Celtic over "pro-IRA" chanting by fans during a match against Hibernian the previous month.  The investigation concluded on 5 December 2011, with the SPL stating that "It is not disputed that a small number of Celtic fans engaged in singing and chanting in support of the IRA". However, Celtic were deemed to have taken all "reasonably practicable steps" to try and prevent the behaviour so no action was taken against them. The SPL also stated that repeated condemnation of the chants by manager Neil Lennon as well as chief executive Peter Lawwell had been taken into consideration.  , In 1965, Celtic began publishing The Celtic View , the oldest club magazine in football.  , In 2004, Celtic launched their own digital TV channel called Celtic TV , which was available in the UK through Setanta Sports on satellite and cable platforms. Due to the collapse of Setanta in the UK in June 2009, Celtic TV stopped broadcasting, although the club hoped to find a new broadcast partner.  , Since 2002, Celtic's Internet TV channel Channel67 (previously known as Celtic Replay) broadcast Celtic's own content worldwide and offered live match coverage to subscribers outside the UK. It also provided three online channels. , In 2011, Celtic TV was relaunched as an online service and replaced Channel 67.   , Due to Celtic's large following, several clubs outside of Scotland have decided to emulate or have been inspired by Celtic. As the club has a large following, especially in Northern Ireland , several clubs have been founded by local Celtic fans. , One such club was Belfast Celtic , formed in 1891 simply as Celtic . Upon incorporation as a limited company in 1901, however, the club adopted the name "Belfast Celtic", the title "Celtic Football Club Ltd" already being registered by the Glasgow club.  Their home from the same year was Celtic Park on Donegall Road in west Belfast , known to the fans as Paradise .  It was one of the most successful teams in Ireland until it withdrew from the Irish League in 1949. , Donegal Celtic , currently playing in the NIFL Championship 1 , was established in 1970, with the Celtic part being taken on due to the massive local following for Scotland's Celtic and formerly Belfast Celtic. The club plays in the same stadium Belfast Celtic did, Celtic Park in Belfast . , A club by the name of Lurgan Celtic was originally formed in 1903, with the obvious slant of aiming towards the Roman Catholic community of the town , adopting the name and colours of the Glaswegian Celtic. The County Armagh club currently plays in NIFL Championship 1 . , South African club Bloemfontein Celtic F.C. , one the most popular club in the country with a large fan base in the Free State , is also named after Celtic F.C. Founded in 1969 as Mangaung United , in 1984, the then owner Molemela took over the club and changed the name to Bloemfontein Celtic . Based in Bloemfontein , they play in the Premier Soccer League . , Other clubs to have been named after and adopted Celtic's kit are: the now defunct Scottish club Blantyre Celtic F.C. ; Irish club Listowel Celtic F.C. ; and English lower-league clubs Cleator Moor Celtic F.C. , which was founded in 1908–09 by Irish immigrants employed in the local iron ore mines, Celtic Nation F.C. and West Allotment Celtic F.C. . Tuam Celtic A.F.C. and Castlebar Celtic F.C. , both play at grounds called Celtic Park; in Tuam , Irish Republic and in its Castlebar counterpart in Northern Ireland, respectively. , Celtic was initially founded to raise money for the poor in the East End of Glasgow and the club still retain strong charitable traditions today.  , On 9 August 2011 Celtic held a testimonial match in honour of former player John Kennedy . Due to the humanitarian crisis in East Africa , the entire proceeds were donated to Oxfam . An estimated £300,000 was raised.  , In 1995 the Celtic charity fund was formed with the aim of "revitalising Celtic's charitable traditions" and to August 2011 has raised over £3 million.   , Celtic hold an annual charity fashion show at Celtic Park . In 2011 the main beneficiaries were Breast Cancer Care Scotland .  , Yorkhill Hospital is another charity with whom Celtic are affiliated and in December 2011 the club donated £3000 to it. Chief Executive Peter Lawwell said that; "Celtic has always been much more than a football club and it is important that, at all times we play an important role in the wider community. The club is delighted to have enjoyed such a long and positive connection with Yorkhill Hospital."  , Celtic were formed in 1888 and in 1897 the club became a Private Limited Company ,  this was owned and run by several family "dynasties".  These directors had a reputation of being very niggardly and authoritarian, as well as not showing loyalty to their players or managers. In particular they were known for continually selling their top players and not paying their staff enough, they also lacked ambition and many managers had run-ins with them due to this. Three of Celtic's most legendary figures Billy McNeill , Jock Stein and Jimmy McGrory all suffered from this. The board tried to sell McGrory, Celtic's greatest ever goalscorer, to Arsenal in 1928. Knowing how loyal he was to the club, they lured him to London under false pretences and despite his unhappiness at this, and Arsenal's offer of making him the highest paid player in Britain, he refused to move. As well as this, throughout his whole career he was paid £8 a week, £1 less than the rest of the team. As a manager McGrory was also unhappy with the board as they controlled team selection, he considered resigning three years into his management as the club had almost been relegated. Despite scoring 550 goals in 547 games, although not being as successful as a manager, throughout his 35-year playing and managing career with the club they were generally unsuccessful and were always in Rangers' shadow.   , Stein, who had also played for Celtic, took over the management of the club from McGrory in 1965 and revolutionised the team. He won nine successive league titles and the 1967 European Cup , as well as being runners-up in 1970 ,  with largely the team that McGrory had left behind. [ citation needed ] By the mid-70s Celtic were declining and Stein was struggling to replace the Lisbon Lions . He had also been seriously injured in a car crash in 1975 which had been said to have affected him badly. Stein rebuilt the squad and achieved a double in 1976–77 .  However, the next season went poorly and the ability and commitment of many of these players was called into question.  The board decided to replace Stein in 1978. The recently appointed chairman, Desmond White, and Stein had a poor relationship and Stein left the club in a bad manner. Celtic's official history was released at that time and Stein was criticised in the book for losing the 1970 European Cup. White and the directors had contributed to the book and Stein was unhappy with this criticism. Stein was offered a place on the Celtic board after he left, however, they wanted him to revive the ticket sales at the club. Stein felt this demeaning and he said was; "a football man, not a ticket salesman". He declined this offer and decided to stay in management.   , McNeill, the European Cup winning captain under Stein, was brought in to replace him. After five seasons he asked for a contract with a wage rise as he felt he needed greater security; his predecessor had had informal "gentleman's agreements" with the club. During his tenure McNeill had been the most successful manager in Scotland yet it was revealed that he earned less than his counterparts at Aberdeen , Dundee United and Rangers . McNeill also publicly asked the board for more money to invest in the playing squad. The following day the board announced they had unanimously rejected his requests and McNeill moved on to manage Manchester City stating that to remain at Celtic would have been humiliating.  , Throughout the 1960s and 70s Celtic had been one of the strongest clubs in Europe. However, the directors failed to accompany the wave of economic development facing football in the 1980s. In 1989, the club's annual budget was £6.4 million, about a third as much as Barcelona , with a debt of around 40% and on-field success deteriorating.  In the early 1990s the situation began to worsen, in 1993 fans began organising pressure groups to protest against the board, one of the most prominent being "Celts for Change". They strongly supported a takeover bid fronted by Fergus McCann and Brian Dempsey . Football writer Jim Traynor likened McCann's attempt to buy the club from the board as being like "good against evil".  , On 4 March 1994, McCann bought Celtic for £9 million.  When he bought the club it was reported to be within 24 hours of entering receivership due to a £5 million overdraft.   He turned Celtic into a public limited company through a share issue which raised over £14 million, the most successful share issue in British football history.   He also oversaw the building of a new stadium, the 60,000 seater Celtic Park , which cost £40 million and at the time was Britain's largest capacity stadium.    This allowed Celtic to progress as a club because over £20 million was being raised each year from season ticket sales.  , McCann had maintained from the outset that he would only be at Celtic for five years and in September 1999 he officially announced that his 50.3% stake in Celtic was for sale. McCann had always wanted the ownership of Celtic to be spread as widely as possible and gave first preference to existing shareholders and season-ticket holders. This was to stop a new consortium taking over the club.  14.4 million shares were sold by McCann at a value of 280 pence each. McCann made £40 million out of this, meaning he left Celtic with a £31 million profit. During his tenure, turnover at Celtic rose by 385% to £33.8m and operating profits rose from £282,000 to £6.7m.  McCann was often criticised during his time at Celtic and many people disagreed with him over building a stadium which they thought Celtic couldn't fill, not investing enough in the squad and being overly focused on finance. However, McCann was responsible for the financial recovery of the club and for providing a very good platform for it to build on. After he left Celtic, the club were able to invest in players and achieved much success such as winning The Treble in 2000–01 and reaching the 2003 UEFA Cup Final .   , After McCann's exit, Irish billionaire Dermot Desmond was left as the majority shareholder. He purchased 2.8 million of McCann's shares to increase his stake in the club from 13% to 20%.  , In 2005, Celtic issued a share offer designed to raise £15 million for the club, 50 million new shares were made available priced at 30p each. It was also revealed that majority sharholder Desmond would buy around £10 million worth of the shares. £10 million of the money raised was for building a new state-of-the-art training facility and youth academy, expanding the club's global scouting network and investing in coaching and player development programmes. The rest of the money was to be used to reduce debt. Building a youth academy was important for Celtic to surpass both Hearts and Rangers who had superior youth facilities at the time.  The share issue was a success and Celtic had more applicants than shares available,  Celtic's new Lennoxtown training centre was opened in October 2007.  , Celtic have been ranked in the Deloitte Football Money League six times. This lists the top 20 football clubs in the world according to revenue. They were ranked between 2002 ( 2000–01 season ), 2006 ( 2004–05 season ) and 2008 ( 2006–07 season ).   , Celtic's financial results for 2011 showed that the club's debt had been reduced from £5.5 million to £500,000 and that a pre-tax profit of £100,000 had been achieved, compared with a loss of over £2 million the previous year. Turnover also decreased by 15% from £63 million to £52 million.  , In May 2012, Celtic were rated 37th in Brand Finance 's annual valuation of the world's biggest football clubs. Celtic's brand was valued at $64 million (£40.7 million), $15 million more than the previous year. It was the first time a Scottish club had been ranked in the top 50. Matt Hannagan, Sports Brand Valuation Analyst at Brand Finance, said that Celtic were constrained by the amount of money they got from the SPL and that if they were in the Premiership then, due to their large fan base, they could be in the top 10 clubs in the world.   Later that month David Low, the financial consultant who advised Fergus McCann on his takeover of Celtic in 1994, said that Celtic's 'enterprise value' (how much it would cost to buy the club) was £52 million.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , For Celtic's development and youth squads, see Celtic Development and Youth squads . , See also Honours for full list including minor, reserve and youth competitions ,  , 1 Awarded to the fans of Celtic. , See List of Celtic F.C. players for players with over 100 appearances, List of Celtic F.C. international footballers and Category:Celtic FC players , , The following team was voted the greatest ever Celtic team by supporters in 2002:  , To November 2011, 21 Celtic players and managers have entered the Scottish Football Hall of Fame :  , The Scotland national football team roll of honour recognises players who have gained 50 or more international caps for Scotland. Inductees to have played for Celtic are:  , In the Scottish Sports Hall of Fame , five Celtic players have been selected, they are: , As of June 2013, Celtic are sponsored by:   Hamburger Sport-Verein e.V. [hamˈbʊʁɡɐ ˌʃpɔʁt fɛɐ̯ˈʔaɪ̯n] , commonly known as Hamburger SV , Hamburg or HSV [haː ʔɛs ˈfaʊ̯] , is a German sport club based in Hamburg , its largest branch being its football department. Although the current HSV was founded in June 1919 from a merger of three earlier clubs, it officially traces its origin to 29 September 1887 when the first of the predecessors, SC Germania , was founded. HSV's football team has the unique distinction of having played continuously in the top tier of the German football league system since the end of World War I . It is the only team that has played in every season of the Bundesliga since its foundation in 1963, at which time the team was led by German national captain Uwe Seeler .  , HSV has won the German national championship six times, the DFB-Pokal three times and the League Cup twice. The team's most successful period was from the mid-1970s until the mid-1980s when, in addition to several domestic honours, they won the 1976–77 European Cup Winners' Cup and the 1982–83 European Cup . Their outstanding player was German national star Felix Magath . To date, HSV's last major trophy was the 1986–87 DFB-Pokal . , HSV play their home games at the Volksparkstadion in Bahrenfeld , a western district of Hamburg. The club colours are officially blue, white and black but the home kit of the team is white jerseys and red shorts. The team's most common nickname is "die Rothosen" (the Red Shorts). As it is one of Germany's oldest clubs, it is also known as der Dinosaurier (the Dinosaur). HSV have rivalries with Werder Bremen , with whom they contest the Nordderby , and Hamburg-based FC St. Pauli . , HSV is notable in football as a grassroots organisation with youth development a strong theme. The club had a team in the Women's Bundesliga from 2003 to 2012 but it was demoted to Regionalliga level because of financial problems. Other club departments include badminton , baseball , basketball , bowling , boxing , cricket , darts , hockey , golf , gymnastics , handball and cardiopulmonary rehabilitation exercises. These departments represent about ten percent of the club membership. HSV is one of the biggest sports clubs in Germany with over 70,000 members in all its departments  and stated by Forbes to be among the twenty largest football clubs in the world.  , , , Hamburger Sport-Verein (HSV) traces its origin to the merger of Der Hohenfelder Sportclub and Wandsbek-Marienthaler Sportclub on 29 September 1887 to form Sport-Club Germania Hamburg , usually referred to as SC Germania . This was the first of three clubs that merged on 2 June 1919 to create HSV in its present form. HSV in its club statute recognises the founding of SC Germania as its own date of origin.  The other two clubs in the June 1919 merger were Hamburger FC founded in 1888 and FC Falke Eppendorf dating back to 1906. The merger came about because the three clubs had been severely weakened by the impact of the First World War on manpower and finance and they could not continue as separate entities.  , SC Germania was formed originally as an athletics club and did not begin to play football until 1891, when some Englishmen joined the club and introduced it. SC Germania had its first success in 1896, winning the Hamburg-Altona championship for the first of five times. Germania player Hans Nobiling emigrated to Brazil at the end of the 19th century, where he became an important pioneer of the game, instrumental in the foundation of SC Internacional , the third oldest club of the country which became part of São Paulo FC in 1938 and SC Germânia of São Paulo, which later became EC Pinheiros one of the major sports clubs of Brazil. , Hamburger SC 1888 was founded by students on 1 June 1888. It later had links with a youth team called FC Viktoria 95 and, during the First World War, was temporarily known as Viktoria Hamburg 88. SC Germania and Hamburger SC 1888 were among 86 clubs who founded the Deutscher Fußball-Bund (DFB; German Football Association) in Leipzig on 28 January 1900. FC Falke was founded by students in Eppendorf on 5 March 1906 but it was never a successful team and played in lower leagues. , The newly formed Hamburger SV quickly became competitive and contested the 1922 national final against 1. FC Nuremberg , who were playing for their third consecutive title. The game was called off on account of darkness after three hours and ten minutes of play, drawn at 2–2.  The re-match also went into extra time, and in an era that did not allow for substitutions, that game was called off at 2–2 when Nuremberg were reduced to just seven players (two were injured, two had been sent off ) and the referee ruled they could not continue. Considerable wrangling ensued over the decision. The DFB awarded the win to HSV but urged them to refuse the title in the name of good sportsmanship (which they grudgingly did). Ultimately, the Viktoria trophy was not officially presented that year.  , HSV's first unqualified success was achieved in the 1923 German football championship when they won the national title against Union Oberschöneweide . They failed to defend the title in 1924 , losing the final to Nuremberg, but lifted the Viktoria again in 1928 when they defeated Hertha BSC 5–2 at the Altonaer Stadion in the final. , During the Third Reich , HSV enjoyed local success in the Gauliga Nordmark , also known as the Gauliga Hamburg, winning the league championship in 1937, 1938, 1939, 1941 and 1945. At national level the club was unsuccessful with semi-final losses in 1938 and 1939 their best performances in this period. Its main rival in the Gauliga in those years was Eimsbütteler TV . , HSV's first post-war season was in the newly formed Stadtliga Hamburg and they won its championship in 1946. The club also won the championship of the British occupation zone in 1947 and 1948, the only two seasons this competition was staged.  , HSV became the first German team to tour the United States after the Second World War in May 1950 and came away with a 6–0 record.  , Playing in the Oberliga Nord after the resumption of league play in postwar West Germany in 1947, HSV became a frighteningly dominant regional club. In sixteen seasons from 1947–48 to 1962–63 they laid claim to the Oberliga title 15 times, only posting an uncharacteristic 11th-place finish in 1953–54. During this period, they scored over 100 goals in each of the 1951, 1955, 1961, and 1962 seasons. In 1953, the club's all-time leading goalscorer Uwe Seeler debuted. In nine seasons he scored 267 goals in 237 Oberliga matches.  , However, national titles were harder to come by. In 1956, HSV reached the DFB-Pokal final but were beaten by Karlsruher SC .  This was followed by losses in the finals of the national championship to Borussia Dortmund in 1957 and FC Schalke 04 in 1958 .  , In 1960 , HSV became German champions for the first time since 1928, defeating 1. FC Köln 3–2 in the championship final. Seeler, who scored twice in the final, was named West German player of the year .  , As national champions, HSV represented West Germany in the 1960–61 European Cup . The club's first ever match in European competition was a 5–0 defeat of Swiss club BSC Young Boys in Bern ,  with HSV winning the tie 8–3 on aggregate. In the quarter-finals they beat English champions Burnley , before being defeated by FC Barcelona at the semi-final stage in a playoff game after the scores were level over two legs. The crowd of 77,600 at the Volksparkstadion for the first leg against Barcelona remains the record attendance for a HSV home match.  , Soon after, Germany's first professional football league, the Bundesliga , was formed and HSV was one of 16 clubs invited to join that first season. Hamburger SV currently holds the distinction of being the only original Bundesliga side to have played continuously in the top flight – without ever having been relegated – since the formation of the league in 1963. They had shared that special status with Eintracht Frankfurt and 1. FC Kaiserslautern until 1996 , and with 1. FC Köln until 1998 . Altogether, 49 other sides have come and gone since the league's inception. The Bundesliga celebrated its 40th anniversary on 24 August 2004 with a match between "The Dinosaur", as the club has been affectionately nicknamed due to its old age, and Bayern Munich , the league's most successful side. , In August 1963, HSV defeated Borussia Dortmund 3–0 at Hanover 's Niedersachsenstadion to win the club's first DFB-Pokal .  In the same month the club played its first ever Bundesliga match, drawing 1–1 with SC Preußen Münster .  HSV finished the Bundesliga's first season in sixth place, with Uwe Seeler scoring thirty goals to secure the Torjägerkanone .  He was also named footballer of the year for the second time.  The DFB-Pokal victory enabled HSV to play in the 1963–64 European Cup Winners' Cup and they reached the quarter-final. , In 1967, HSV again reached the final of the DFB-Pokal where they were defeated 4–0 by FC Bayern Munich .  However, HSV were admitted to the following season's European Cup Winners' Cup where they lost to A.C. Milan in the final.  , In 1970, Seeler was named footballer of the year for the third time.  He retired at the end of the 1971–72 season in front of 72,000 fans at the Volksparkstadion .  He ended his career with 137 goals from 239 Bundesliga matches  and 507 goals from 587 appearances in all competitions.  In the same season, HSV played in the UEFA Cup for the first time but were knocked out in the first round by St. Johnstone . , In 1973, HSV won the first edition of the DFB-Ligapokal , beating Borussia Mönchengladbach 4–0 in the final.  A year later, they reached the DFB-Pokal final, where they were beaten by Eintracht Frankfurt .  In 1976, HSV reached another DFB-Pokal final, beating 1. FC Kaiserslautern 2–0 to win the trophy for the second time in the club's history.  The following year, HSV achieved its first international success with a 2–0 win over Belgian club RSC Anderlecht in the final of the 1976–77 European Cup Winners' Cup .  The club then signed English superstar Kevin Keegan from European champions Liverpool .  After spending much of the previous decade in mid-table, HSV had achieved their best Bundesliga position in 1974–75 by finishing fourth. This was then bettered in 1975–76 with a second-place finish. Keegan's first season at the club saw the team slip to a disappointing tenth place, however, the player himself was named European Footballer of the Year . , In 1978, Branko Zebec was appointed trainer of HSV.  The Yugoslav led the club to its first ever Bundesliga title in his first season in charge .  Keegan top scored for die Rothosen and was awarded the Ballon d'Or for a second successive year. , In the 1979–80 season , HSV returned to the European Cup for the first time since 1960–61 . As had happened 19 years ago, HSV faced Spanish opposition in the semi-finals. After losing the first leg at the Estadio Santiago Bernabéu 2–0, HSV thrashed six time winners Real Madrid 5–1 at the Volksparkstadion to qualify for the final.  HSV returned to Madrid to play Nottingham Forest in the final , where they were beaten 1–0.  In the Bundesliga , HSV missed out on defending their title by two points, finishing in second place behind champions Bayern Munich . , In December 1980, HSV dismissed Zebec, who had been struggling with a drinking problem .  His assistant Aleksandar Ristić was appointed caretaker for the remainder of the season and secured a creditable second-place finish in the Bundesliga . , In 1981, Austrian coach Ernst Happel was appointed as Zebec's permanent replacement.  In his first season , his HSV side regained the Bundesliga title and reached the UEFA Cup final , where they lost 4–0 on aggregate to Sweden 's IFK Göteborg .  , Between 16 January 1982 and 29 January 1983 HSV went undefeated in the Bundesliga. The run stretched across 36 games and remained a Bundesliga record until November 2013, when it was broken by FC Bayern Munich .   , A third Meisterschale followed at the end of the 1982–83 season , with HSV defending their title against local rivals SV Werder Bremen on goal difference .  The same year, HSV recorded its greatest ever success, defeating Juventus 1–0 in Athens to win the club's first European Cup .  , In December 1983, HSV traveled to Tokyo where they faced South American champions Grêmio in the Intercontinental Cup . The Brazilian club took home the trophy with a 93rd minute winning goal.  Back home, they lost the league championship to VfB Stuttgart on goal difference. , Both 1984–85 and 1985–86 were disappointing seasons for HSV; with the club finishing fifth and seventh respectively. In 1986, legendary midfielder Felix Magath , who had played for the club for ten years and scored the winning goal in the 1983 European Cup Final , retired from professional football.  , In 1986–87 , HSV finished second in the Bundesliga and won a fourth DFB-Pokal , beating Stuttgarter Kickers 3–1 in the final at West Berlin 's Olympiastadion .  After this success, Ernst Happel left the club to return to Austria . He remains HSV's most successful trainer with two Bundesliga titles , one DFB-Pokal and one European Cup .  , In the early 1990s, HSV found itself in financial trouble. The sale of Thomas Doll to S.S. Lazio for a then record 16 million Deutsche Marks  in June 1991 is credited with ensuring the club's survival.  , On the pitch the team was in decline. After a fifth-place finish in 1990–91 , HSV finished in the bottom half of the Bundesliga in four consecutive seasons. , In October 1995, Felix Magath returned to HSV to become the club's trainer . The following month, Uwe Seeler also returned as the club president.  Under the new regime, HSV finished fifth in the Bundesliga , securing European qualification for the first time in six years. The following season , HSV reached the semi-finals of the DFB-Pokal . However, in May 1997, Magath was fired after a 4–0 defeat to 1. FC Köln with the team one place above the relegation zone.  HSV eventually finished in 13th place under reserve team coach Ralf Schehr . , In 1997, HSV appointed Frank Pagelsdorf , who would coach the team for over four years, making him the longest serving trainer since Ernst Happel . A ninth-place finish in 1997–98 was followed by seventh in 1998–99 and third in 1999–2000 ,  the team's best performance since 1986–87 . , On 2 September 2000, the new Volksparkstadion was officially opened as the national team played its first 2002 FIFA World Cup qualifier against Greece .  , In 2000–01, HSV competed in the UEFA Champions League for the first time since the competition's expansion from the old European Cup .  Their first match was an extraordinary 4–4 draw against Juventus , with Anthony Yeboah scoring the club's first Champions League goal.  Though HSV failed to qualify for the second round, they did manage a historic 3–1 win over Juve in the return fixture at the Stadio delle Alpi .  , In July 2003, HSV won its first trophy in sixteen years with a 4–2 defeat of Borussia Dortmund in the DFB-Ligapokal final.  , In August 2004, HSV was upset in the early rounds of the DFB-Pokal by regional league side SC Paderborn 07 . The match became one of the most infamous in recent football history when it was discovered that referee , Robert Hoyzer , had accepted money from a Croatian gambling syndicate to fix the match , which he did, awarding two penalties to Paderborn and sending off HSV player Emile Mpenza . The resulting scandal became the biggest in German football in over 30 years, and was an embarrassment to the country as it prepared to host the 2006 FIFA World Cup . , Another third-place finish in 2005–06 saw HSV qualify for the Champions League for the second time.  They finished bottom of Group G with a solitary win against Russian club CSKA Moscow . In the league the team was in seventeenth place going into the winter break,  having won once in the league all season , leading to the dismissal of trainer Thomas Doll .  Under new coach Huub Stevens , HSV pulled away from the relegation zone and qualified for the UEFA Cup via a seventh-place finish and victory in the Intertoto Cup .  The following season, Stevens led the team to fourth place in the Bundesliga before leaving to take over at Dutch champions PSV of Eindhoven .  He was replaced by Martin Jol , who took HSV to the semi-finals of both the 2008–09 UEFA Cup and the 2008–09 DFB-Pokal , both of which die Rothosen lost to rivals Werder Bremen .  In the league they missed out on Champions League qualification on the final day of the season.  In the summer of 2009, after only one season, Jol departed to become coach of AFC Ajax .  , Under new coach Bruno Labbadia , HSV reached the semi-finals of the UEFA Cup (now renamed the UEFA Europa League ) for the second season in a row. However, a defeat in the away leg to Fulham days after the firing of Labbadia  denied the club the opportunity to play in the final , which was held at its home stadium . , On 13 October 2011 Thorsten Fink was appointed as coach  with the team in the relegation zone after losing six of their opening eight matches. In HSV's first nine games under Fink they were unbeaten, going into the winter break in thirteenth place.  The team eventually finished fifteenth , avoiding a first ever relegation by five points. In 2012–13 , HSV recorded a much improved seventh-place finish. It was due to Heung-min Son's ability to score crucial goals. However, during the season the team equaled the club's record Bundesliga defeat, losing 9–2 at the Allianz Arena to FC Bayern Munich .  , Fink was replaced on 25 September 2013 by Bert van Marwijk ,  who in the same season was replaced by Mirko Slomka on 17 February 2014. Under Slomka, the club narrowly avoided its first ever relegation from the Bundesliga in May 2014 by defeating SpVgg Greuther Fürth on away goals in a play-off.  , Hamburg plays its home games in the Volksparkstadion , which was previously known as the Imtech Arena between 2010 and 2015.  Built on the site of the original Volksparkstadion, opened in 1953, the current stadium was opened in 2000, and has a capacity of 57,000 – approximately 47,000 seats with another 10,000 spectators standing. The first Volksparkstadion had been a venue for the 1974 FIFA World Cup and UEFA Euro 1988 . The Volksparkstadion is a UEFA category one stadium, which certifies it to host UEFA Cup and UEFA Champions League finals. The stadium was the site of four group matches and a quarter-final in the past 2006 FIFA World Cup , hosted by Germany, and was known as FIFA World Cup Stadium Hamburg during the event. It was also the venue for the 2010 UEFA Europa League Final . , HSV fans can be buried at a dedicated graveyard near the home stadium, covered in turf from the original Hamburg pitch.  , HSV shares a cross-town rivalry with FC St. Pauli and contests the Nordderby with fellow Northern Germany side Werder Bremen . In the Spring of 2009 HSV faced Werder Bremen four times in only three weeks, and defeated them in the UEFA-Cup semi-final, as well as in the DFB-Pokal semi-final. , HSV have an affinity with Scottish club Rangers F.C. HSV fans unfurl their club logo at Rangers' away European matches. The link between Rangers and Hamburg dates back to 1977 when the Hamburg Rangers Supporters' Club was set up by HSV fans who had visited Rangers matches before and were thrilled by the atmosphere at Ibrox. The links were further strengthened when Rangers signed Jörg Albertz from Hamburg. The friendship between Celtic F.C. and Hamburg's rivals FC St. Pauli has no influence on this friendship though. HSV have a friendship bond with Hannover 96 , due to both being known as HSV. Their meetings involve the visitors' club song to be played, and fans chanting HSV from each end of the stadium. Furthermore, the Hamburger SV has a friendship bond with Arminia Bielefeld . Both teams share the same colors, resulting in the popular fan chant "Schwarz, weiß, blau - Arminia und der HSV" ( "Black, white, blue - Arminia and the HSV" ). Especially in the 1990s, multiple players transfered between the two clubs. , The club colours are officially blue, white and black according to its statute but the fans use the combination "schwarz-weiss-blau" (black-white-blue) in their songs and chants; they also chant "haa-ess-fow" (HSV). The club crest is a black and white diamond on a blue background. These were the colours of SC Germania. The use of the blue background suggests a link with Hamburg's maritime tradition as the Blue Peter flag signal (meaning "All Aboard" or "Outward Bound") is a white rectangle on a similar blue background.  , In contrast, the team's home kit is white jerseys and red shorts, which are the colours of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg. As a result, the team's most common nickname is "die Rothosen" (the Red Shorts). Because of its age and having been ever-present in the top flight of German football, HSV is also known as der Dinosaurier (the Dinosaur) and currently uses a dinosaur mascot called "Hermann" (named after long-time club physiotherapist Hermann Rieger) for marketing purposes. , HSV's kit was made by Adidas from 1976 to 1995 and the club re-engaged Adidas in 2007 having worked with a number of its competitors in the meantime. The first shirt sponsorship was introduced in 1974. The shirt now carries the Fly Emirates logo. The following is a list of shirt sponsors by date: , HSV's first participation in European competition came after they won the German championship in 1960 and were invited to take part in the 1960–61 European Cup . They had a bye in the preliminary round and their first round opponents were BSC Young Boys . HSV won the two-legged tie 8–3 on aggregate, beating the Swiss side 0–5 in the away leg on 2 November 1960 and then drawing 3–3 at home on 27 November.  , HSV reached the semi-final of the European Cup in 1961. Subsequently, they have twice played in the final, losing 1–0 to Nottingham Forest in 1980 and defeating Juventus 1–0 in 1983. With Borussia Dortmund and Bayern Munich , HSV is one of three German teams who have won the European Cup. HSV won the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1976–77 and have been runners-ups in both that competition and the UEFA Cup . Their most recent European campaign was the 2009–10 UEFA Europa League in which they reached the semi-final.  , HSV's biggest win in a European match occurred on 23 October 1974 when they defeated Romanian team FC Braşov 8–0 in a UEFA Cup second round tie. Their biggest defeat was in the second leg of the 1977 Super Cup when they lost 6–0 to Liverpool at Anfield on 6 December. Manfred Kaltz with 81 has made the most appearances for HSV in Europe and Horst Hrubesch with 20 is their leading goalscorer.  , Based on data published by UEFA , a summary of HSV's European record to the end of the 2012–13 season is as follows: , According to UEFA, HSV is currently (2013–14 season) ranked 62= among European clubs.  , HSV held the record of post-World War II first-class league titles, having won 15 Oberliga Nord and three Bundesliga championships until 2006 when Bayern Munich won its 19th Bundesliga title and overtook them. [ citation needed ] , Hamburg's three Bundesliga championships entitle the club to display one gold star of the "Verdiente Meistervereine." Under the current award system, their pre-Bundesliga championships are not recognized and so they are not entitled to the second star of a five-time champion. , After the replay of the championship final in 1922 had to be abandoned due to the opponents no longer having enough players on the ground, the German FA requested HSV to renounce the title which the club did. , During his first season with Hamburger SV (2000–01), Sergej Barbarez became the top scorer for his club with 22 goals and joint top scorer of the Bundesliga with Ebbe Sand . , As of 2 March 2015 , according the official website.  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , The reserve team serves mainly as the final stepping stone for promising young players before being promoted to the main team. , The women's section was created in 1970. The team plays in the Bundesliga continuously since the 2003–04 season. , The club's rugby department was established in 1925 but ceased operation in the 1990s. It was reestablished however in March 2006.  The club's men's baseball section, HSV Hamburg, known as the Stealers, was established in 1985 and plays in the first division of the Baseball Bundesliga .  Other important departments are volleyball and cricket . Okka Rau was qualified for the 2008 Beijing Olympics of volleyball .  HSV Cricket is playing in the league of the North German Cricket Federation ( Norddeutscher Cricket Verband ) and won several first places.   Fotbal Club Steaua București ( Romanian pronunciation:  [ˈste̯awa bukuˈreʃtʲ] ) is a Romanian professional football club based in Bucharest . They currently compete in Liga I , the division in which they have spent their entire history. , Domestically, Steaua have won Liga I 26 times, Cupa României 22 times, Supercupa României 6 times and Cupa Ligii one time - all competition records. In UEFA competitions they have won the European Cup and European Super Cup , both in 1986 . They have also reached the European Cup final in 1989, the final of the Intercontinental Cup , quarter-finals of the European Cup Winners' Cup and the semi-finals of the UEFA Cup . , The club is historically known as the Romanian Army sports club, though the football department separated in 1998. , Steaua currently play their home games at Arena Națională , having moved there from their former home, the Ministry of National Defence -owned, Stadionul Ghencea . Initially, the club played in the colours of the Romanian tricolour - blue, yellow and red - but yellow soon lost its importance, and the team became associated with the red and blue colours. Since 2008 away kits have begun to reintegrate the yellow colour. Except 2012–13 when away kit was blue. , The club has a long-standing rivalry with Dinamo București , matches between the two being commonly referred to as " The Eternal Derby " or " The Romanian Derby ". , , , Steaua was founded on 7 June 1947, at the initiative of several officers of the Romanian Royal House. The establishment took place following a decree signed by General Mihail Lascăr , High Commander of the Romanian Royal Army . The club's first name was ASA București ( Asociația Sportivă a Armatei București – Army Sports Association ). It was formed as a sports society with seven initial sections, including football, coached by Coloman Braun-Bogdan .  ASA was renamed CSCA ( Clubul Sportiv Central al Armatei – Central Sports Club of the Army ) in 1948 and CCA ( Casa Centrală a Armatei – Central House of the Army ) in 1950.  , In 1949, CSCA won its first trophy, the Romanian Cup , defeating CSU Cluj 2–1 in the final. Under the name of CCA , the club managed to win three Championship titles in a row in 1951 , 1952 and 1953 , along with their first Championship-Cup Double in 1951. During the 1950s, the so-called CCA Golden Team became nationally famous.  In 1956, the national team of Romania , composed exclusively of CCA players, took on Yugoslavia in Belgrade and won 1–0. During the same year, CCA, coached by Ilie Savu , was the first Romanian team to enterprise a tournament in England where they achieved noteworthy results against the likes of Luton Town , Arsenal , Sheffield Wednesday and Wolverhampton Wanderers .  , At the end of 1961 CCA changed its name once again to CSA Steaua București ( Clubul Sportiv al Armatei Steaua – Army Sports Club Steaua ). The club's new name translates The Star and was adopted because of the presence of a red star , symbol of most East-European Army clubs, on their crest. A poor period of almost two decades followed in which the club claimed only three championships ( 1967–68 , 1975–76 , 1977–78 ). Instead, the team won nine national cup trophies, for which matter they gained the nickname of cup specialists .  Also during this period, on 9 April 1974, Steaua's current ground, Stadionul Ghencea , was inaugurated with a friendly match opposing OFK Beograd .  , , , Under the leadership of coaches Emerich Jenei and Anghel Iordănescu , Steaua had an impressive Championship run in the 1984–85 season, which they won after a six-year break. Subsequently, they were the first Romanian team to make it to a European Cup final, which they won in front of Barcelona on penalties (2–0 thanks to goalkeeper Helmuth Duckadam succeeding to save all four penalties taken by the Spaniards), after a goalless draw. Steaua therefore became the first Eastern-European team to claim the title of European champions. An additional European Super Cup was won in 1987 in front of Dynamo Kyiv . Steaua remained at the top of European football for the rest of the decade, managing one more European Cup semifinal in 1987–88 and one more European Cup final in 1989 (lost 4–0 to Milan ). This happened next to their four additional national titles (1985–86, 1986–87, 1987–88, 1988–89) and four national cups ( 1984–85 , 1986–87 , 1987–88 , 1988–89 ). Furthermore, from June 1986 to September 1989, Steaua ran a record 104-match undefeated streak in the championship, setting a world record for that time and a European one still standing.  , The Romanian Revolution led the country towards a free open market and, subsequently, several players of the 1980s team left for other clubs in the West. After a short pull-back, a quick recovery followed and Steaua managed a six consecutive championship streak between 1992–93 and 1997–98 to equalise the 1920s performance of Chinezul Timișoara  and also three more cups in 1995–96, 1996–97 and 1998–99. At international level, they also managed to make it to the UEFA Champions League group stage three years in a row between 1994–95 and 1996–97 . In 1998, the football club separated from CSA Steaua and changed their name for the final time to FC Steaua București ( Fotbal Club Steaua – Football Club Steaua ),  being led by Romanian businessman Viorel Păunescu. Păunescu performed poorly as a president and soon the club was plunged into debt.  George Becali , another businessman, was offered the position of vice-president, in hope that he would invest money in the club. Becali eventually purchased the majority share in 2002 and turned the governing company public in January 2003.  , Because of his controversial character, he has been contested by the majority of Steaua fans.  The team qualified for the UEFA Cup group stage in the 2004–05 season and further on became the first Romanian team to make it to the European football spring since 1993 (also Steaua's performance). The next season, they reached the UEFA Cup semi-finals in 2005–06 , where they were eliminated by Middlesbrough thanks to a last minute goal and thereafter qualified for the following UEFA Champions League seasons after a ten-year break. In the 2007–08 season Steaua have qualified again in the group stage of UEFA Champions League . Nationally, they gained two titles in 2004–05 and 2005–06 and the Romanian Super Cup in 2006, the latter being the club's 50th trophy in its 59-year history.  , In 2013, Steaua won its 24th national title, also reaching the UEFA Champions League group stage. They repeated the same performance next year, in 2014, winning the 25th championship. , The Ministry of National Defense took Steaua to court in 2014, claiming that the Romanian Army were the rightful owners of the logo of Steaua Bucharest.  The Supreme Court found in the army's favour, and on 3 December 2014 stripped the football club of its badge.  Steaua were forced to play their next home game, against CSM Studențesc Iași , without it on the stadium scoreboard.  The club unveiled a new badge in January 2015, an eight-sided star containing the letters FCSB,  and issued a statement to the effect that they had reached an agreement with the Ministry of National Defense that would allow them to retain the name Steaua București and the colours.  , Several controversies exist regarding Steaua's past and its ownership by the Romanian Army before the Romanian Revolution , such as the club's establishment, its activity exclusively inside the Liga I , means of transferring players and involvement of the Ceaușescu family in the life of the team during the 1980s. , The club was founded as ASA București , by the Romanian Royal Army, on 7 June 1947.  Debates regarding this issue relate to Romania's form of government, confronting the arguments that, on one hand, the government was mostly communist and on the other hand that the country was still a constitutional monarchy , with the king serving as the High Commander of the Romanian Army. Nevertheless, at the beginning of their first season, even though supposing to attend a play-off for 2nd league promotion, Carmen București was disbanded out of political reasons, its place in the first league being occupied therefore by ASA .  Subsequently, the team never relegated and is currently one of the 2 teams to have only played inside the first league, along with Dinamo București . , The means players would transfer to the club link to the organization of sporting activities inside former Communist countries. As of 1947, the new Communist government instituted norms stating that every sports association was to be linked to a certain form of trade union or governmental institution.  As professional football was therefore abolished, players would move between teams as arrangements between the clubs' governing institutions, and not as regular market economy transactions. Being the club of the Army, several young gifted players would often be tempted by Steaua to join their ranks, having the advantages of better conditions ensured by the club, the opportunity of a more productive career, and also, among other, of being exempted from the compulsory military stage.  Gheorghe Hagi was borrowed this way from Sportul Studențesc București for the 1987 European Super Cup match with Dynamo Kyiv and afterwards continued, at his will, to play for Steaua, despite his former club's opposition.  However, another famous example is also the one of Gheorghe Popescu , transferred in 1988 from Universitatea Craiova , apparently without the club's or player's consent and who returned to his former club after one season.  , ASA București was founded by the Royal Army on 7 June 1947,  at which date the club had no official crest. , As communists assumed total control of the country on 30 December 1947,  the Royal Army was transformed into the People's Army and ASA automatically with it. Being inspired by the Red Army , the new Ministry of Defence decided to create a crest for the club, along with the change of name to CSCA, consisting in an A-labeled red star (symbol of the Red Army) on a blue disc. , Two years later, the change of name to CCA brought with it a new crest consisting of the same red star labeled CCA surrounded by a crown of laurel. The all-present star motif on the crest finally had its saying over the new name of Steaua as up 1961. It was opted for a badge which, redesigned, remains up to this day the club's symbol: the red and blue striped background with a golden star in the middle, to symbolize to Romanian tricolour flag. The shape for the emblem was redesigned in 1974, once the team moved to Stadionul Ghencea . , Following the Romanian Revolution , the Army decided to break all links to the defunct communist regime, so, in 1991, CSA Steaua had a last change of crest with an eagle also present on the Ministry of Defence coat of arms and also on Romania's. As FC Steaua appeared in 1998, the club added two yellow stars on top of the CSA Steaua badge signifying its 20 titles of champions won, along with the Fotbal Club specification. , 2003 was the year of the last change of crest, decided by the new Board of Administration run by George Becali , which was a return to the old emblem of 1974–1991, redesigned with the two yellow stars on top. , During their first season, 1947–48, Steaua wore yellow and red striped shirts with blue shorts, to symbolize Romania's tricolour flag.  , Starting with the following season and with the Army's change of identity from the Royal Army to the People's Army, the yellow was gradually given up, so that the official colours remained, up to this day, the red and the blue. , Steaua has never had a standard playing kit. However, the most widely used throughout time was the combination of red shirts, blue shorts and red socks. Other variants have been all-red, all-blue and also shirts in vertical red and blue stripes during the 1960s and 1970s. Other kit colours have very rarely been used. Exceptions were the 1986 European Cup Final in which Steaua wore, for the only time in their history, an all-white kit, the 1999–00 away kit (yellow and red), the 2005–06 third kit (yellow and black)and the 2008–09 away kit (all yellow). , The 2008–09 home kit, different from the previous seasons, consists in vertical-striped red and blue shirts with blue shorts and socks, while the away strip is all-yellow. Various combinations of these kits also occur. , Steaua's kit is currently manufactured by Nike , which was contracted in 2002, after a long partnership with Adidas .  In 1988, Steaua was the first football team from Romania to display the name of a Western company, Ford .  Several other sponsors succeeded thereafter: Castrol , Philips , CBS , Bancorex (initially BRCE), Dialog (currently Orange ), BCR and RAFO. As of September 2007, the club's new shirt sponsor is CitiFinancial , with a one-year contract valuing EUR 1.3 million.  On 28 September 2013, City Insurance becomes shirt sponsor of Liga I giants FC Steaua București in a deal worth €1.5 million per year.  , These are the International Federation of Football History & Statistics (IFFHS) club's points as of 13 January 2015:  , This is the UEFA club's coefficient as of 3 February 2015:  , Steaua played its three first matches in history at the defunct Venus stadium . Opened in 1931, the venue had previously been in the property of Venus București , a club disbanded in 1949.  After the ground's demolition through order of the Communist regime, Steaua had played its home matches on either three of Bucharest's largest multi-use stadia, ANEF, Republicii (built in 1926 and put down in 1984 to make room for the erection of the Casa Poporului ) and 23 August (built in 1953). Of these two, 23 August (current Național ) was mostly used when two matches between Bucharest clubs were scheduled in the same matchday or for important European matches, while Republicii for regular matches inside the championship. , Steaua plays its home matches at the Stadionul Ghencea , a football stadium situated in South-Western Bucharest. Part of Complexul Sportiv Steaua , it was inaugurated on 9 April 1974 when Steaua played a friendly match against OFK Beograd ,  at which time it was the first football-only stadium ever built in Communist Romania, with no track and field facilities. , The original capacity was 30,000 on benches. A general renovation occurred in 1991. This included installing seats, which dropped the capacity to 28,365,  inaugurating a floodlighting system and erecting a VIP personal box section. , After a second renovation, in 2006, which included refurbishing the turf, Ghencea  was able to host UEFA Champions League events, being a third category arena according to the UEFA classification system .  Lately, there have been talks for increasing the capacity to either 45,000 or 60,000.  , Romania was also a tenant. The first game played by the national team at Ghencea was in March 1977 against Turkey . 59 other games have been played ever since, the last one occurring in October 2006 against Belarus .  Also, several matches from the 1998 UEFA European Under-21 Football Championship , including the final, have been hosted by the arena. , The stadium, built through order of the Ministry of National Defence inside a former military base and was long used by CSA Steaua . , From 2011, Steaua have played the European games and its most important internal games on the newly constructed Arena Națională . From March 2015, only at Arena Națională . , Steaua has the largest number of supporters of any team in Romania. A survey conducted in June 2007 suggested that the club accounts for approximately 42% of all Romanian football lovers, far greater than the teams ranked second and third, Dinamo București , with 12%, and Rapid București , with 9%.  , The largest concentration of fans are in Bucharest , notably in areas adjacent to the arena, covering the whole southern half of Bucharest, a city geographically divided by the Dâmbovița River .  Also, the club has an important fan base inside the country, where several towns are renowned for counting vast majorities of Steaua supporters, and outside the borders, among Romanian emigrants. , The Steaua Ultras movement began in 1995, when the bases of Armata Ultra (AU), the first Ultras group from Bucharest (and second in Romania after Politehnica Timișoara 's Commando Viola Ultra Curva Sud ),  were set. The group quickly reached an impressive number of members, but, in 2001, they dissolved due to internal problems. Currently Steaua's supporters are divided into several groups, some of them being located at the Peluza Nord (North End) (Titan Boys, Nucleo, Insurgenții, Skins, Combat, Armata 47 Vest), while some other ones taking their place at the Peluza Sud (South End) (Vacarm, Glas, E.R.A., Hunters, Outlaws, Shadows, Roosters, T.K., Tinerii Sudisti). Several important groups such as Stil Ostil, Ultras, Banda Ultra' and South Boys retired from attending Steaua's matches due to the club's constant abuses towards them and, mainly, to the current ownership of Steaua.  , More recently, as of 2006, the supporters have formed their own official association, called AISS ( Asociația Independentă a Suporterilor Steliști – Steaua Supporters' Independent Association ). AISS was formed as a legal entity with its stated goals of protecting the interests and image of Steaua supporters , as well as identifying and promoting the club's perennial values .  , A heavy debated topic about the fans is the one related to racism . Stemmed from their rivalry with Rapid București , whose fans are often envisioned as Romani ethnics,  the issue degenerated on certain situations in several incidents between factions of supporters of Steaua and Rapid.  Also, the UEFA Champions League 2005–06 qualifying match against Shelbourne , resulted in a one-matchday pitch suspension for Steaua during the same European season, after racial chants were heard from the crowd.  , Lately, crowd turbulence has been one of the club's main problems. During the last three seasons, [ when? ] 11 Liga I matchday suspensions and one in the UEFA Cup have been dictated against the Ghencea-based club out of reasons such as crowd trouble, racial chants or torch lighting. , In 2009, UEFA ordered Steaua to play two home games of the Europa League behind closed doors due to their fans displaying racist banners in a second qualifying round match against Hungarian side Újpest .  Three further incidents occurred in the 2014-15 season, with the club fined and ordered to play further games in an empty stadium after displays of racist banners in games against Dynamo Kyiv , Ludogorets Razgrad and Strømsgodset .  , Steaua's most important rivalry is the one against Dinamo București . Marele Derby ( The Great Derby ) has been the leading Romanian football encounter in the last 60 years, as Steaua and Dinamo are the two most successful football teams in the country. There have been a total of 156 matches played so far between Steaua and Dinamo, in Romanian League, Romanian Cup and also Romanian Super Cup, with the following results: Steaua 55 wins, Dinamo 54 wins and 47 draws.  With 43 titles won altogether (Steaua–25; Dinamo–18), the two clubs have won 16 of the last 23 seasons.  It is also a match between the former clubs of the Romanian Army (Steaua) and the Ministry of Internal Affairs (Dinamo). Several clashes between different factions of supporters have often occurred and still occur inside and outside the stadium. The heyday was reached before a match kick-off in 1997, when Dinamo's fans set a sector of Stadionul Ghencea 's Peluza Sud , where they were assigned, on fire.  Between October 1991 and April 2000, Steaua counted 19 undefeated official matches in front of their rivals, both in the championship and the cup. Just as well, a period of 17 years and 7 months has been recorded in which Dinamo did not manage to win away against Steaua in the domestic league.  , The second most important rivalry is the one with Rapid București . Several matches in the last years between Steaua and Rapid have also ended in serious clashes between fans.  Rivalry has become even fiercer since Steaua outpassed Rapid in an all-Romanian quarter final of the UEFA Cup 2005–06 season. The local sports newspapers said that the 2 teams were linked up in this quarter final by the line of the number 41 tram which links the Ghencea Stadium to the Valentin Stănescu Stadium . , Milder and historical rivalries are also with non-Bucharest teams such as Universitatea Craiova , Politehnica Timișoara , Petrolul Ploiești , CFR Cluj and Universitatea Cluj .  , Steaua has always been known as the club of the Romanian Army , who founded it in 1947 as a sports society .  The Army continues to own the society, called CSA Steaua București at the moment. , The football department however, in order to comply with UEFA rules, separated and turned private in 1998, owned and financed by a non-profit organization called AFC Steaua București , chaired by businessman Viorel Păunescu.  , In January 2003, the club turned public, under the leadership of investor and current politician George Becali , who had already purchased 51% of the society's shares and later on acquired the rest to become owner of the club. At present Becali has no official link to the club, as he gradually renounced his shares. However, the facts that the current shareholders, that include several nephews of his,  are people loyal to him and that he is still in charge of Steaua are obvious.  An unofficial explanation for this situation is represented by the heavy amount of unpaid taxes added up by the former governing company, AFC Steaua București, whose payment towards the tax authority was avoided this way by transferring its assets to the new-formed company, with the old association going on liquidation bankruptcy.  , George Becali is currently a highly controversial person, whose involvement in the life of the club and the team has often been described as authoritarian and dictatorial by both the media and the fans.  , As Steaua is currently the most popular football team in Romania,  a good number of musicians or TV and film directors have inspired themselves from ideas linked to the Ghencea-based club. Popular reference, however, appeared only after the Romanian Revolution , as before, mass-media programmes were mostly being controlled by the former communist regime. The 2002 Romanian film Furia depicts scenes in which Steaua and Dinamo gangs of supporters are fighting on the streets after a direct match between the two sides.  Prima TV comedy show Mondenii often airs sketches parodying Steaua owner George Becali , the players and other representatives around the club.  Pro TV series La bloc aired an episode in which characters Nelu and Costel are displayed as representing Steaua in a parking lot match against two other neighbours representing Dinamo. , Several other examples from music can be attributed as Steaua-related. Apart from club anthems played throughout time by Marcel Pavel , Bere Gratis , Gaz pe Foc , an album was released in 2006 as a compilation by Mircea Vintilă , Chicanos , Bogdan Dima and several other artists.  Delikt and Ultras are two former hip hop bands whose members ranked the defunct Armata Ultra' brigade and would always show up displaying fan materials. Also, Voltaj , in their song 'MSD2', make reference to the fans in the line Poți să fii câine sau poți fi stelist ( You can be a dog  or you can be a Steaua fan ).  , One of the most famous pop-culture references about the club is the association with Scooter ' s song Maria , first sung spontaneously in 2003 by the fans in Peluza Nord after the team would score. Ever since, it has been adopted as an unofficial club anthem and is being played at the stadium at every match, sung together by the supporters. Nonetheless, the song is beginning to lose popularity, mainly because it has become too commercial and many fans do not feel bonded with it any more.  , Steaua currently boasts itself with the most impressive pedigree in Romania. With 62 seasons spent in Liga I , they are one of only two teams to have played only in the first national league, along with Dinamo București (61 seasons). At the same time, the club is the current record holder for the number of national championships (26), national cups (22), national super cups (6) and the national league cup (1). Between 1993 and 1998, their run of six consecutive national titles won equaled the one of Chinezul Timișoara from the 1920s. Internationally, they are the only Romanian club to have won continental trophies (the European Champions Cup in 1986 and the European Super Cup in 1986) and to have played in the final of the European Cup (in 1986 and 1989 ). , For three years and three months (June 1986 – September 1989), Steaua counted a number of 104 unbeaten matches in the league, establishing, at that moment, a world record and a European one still standing.  Also inside the national league, they counted 112 matches between November 1989 and August 1996 of invincibility at Stadionul Ghencea in Liga I. Their run of 17 straight wins in 1988 is another record, equal to the one held by Dinamo as of one year later.  , Tudorel Stoica is the player with the most appearances for Steaua in Liga I, a record unlikely to be broken in the nearby future, as none of the current players have entered the top 10 so far. The club's all-time top scorer in the league is Anghel Iordănescu with 146 goals, a record that also looks solid, out of the same reason as above-mentioned. Other records are currently owned by former players such as Dorinel Munteanu (most national caps – 134) or Gheorghe Hagi (most goals scored for Romania – 35; most appearances of a Romanian player in the European cups – 93).  , Including 2014-15 season. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , The following managers have all won at least one major trophy with Steaua București:   Olympique de Marseille ( French pronunciation: ​ [ɔlɛ̃pik də maʁsɛj] , locally  [ɔlɛ̃ˈpikə də mɑχˈsɛjə] ; also known as l'OM IPA:  [lo.ɛm] , locally  [loˈɛmə] ) or simply Marseille , is a French association football club based in Marseille . , Founded in 1899, the club play in Ligue 1 and have spent most of their history in the top tier of French football . Marseille have been French champions ten times (nine times in Ligue 1 ) and have won the Coupe de France a record ten times. In 1993 , the club became the first and only French club to win the UEFA Champions League . In 1994, Marseille were relegated because of a bribery scandal, losing their domestic trophy, but not the UEFA Champions League title. In 2010, Marseille became French champions again, under the stewardship of former club captain Didier Deschamps . , Marseille's home ground is the 67,000-person-capacity Stade Vélodrome located in the southern part of the city, where they have played since 1937.  The Stade Vélodrome is renowned for its lively atmosphere. The club has a large fan-base having regularly averaged the highest all-time attendance in French football. Marseille's average home gate for the 2008–09 season was 52,276, the highest in Ligue 1.  The stadium underwent renovation in 2011, going from its previous capacity of 60,031 to 42,000. Following completion in August 2014, the final capacity is 67,000 ahead of France's hosting of UEFA Euro 2016 . The club is sixteenth globally in terms of annual revenue, generating €135.7 million in 2012. , In 1997, Marseille was purchased by Franco -Swiss businessman Robert Louis-Dreyfus . Following the death of Louis-Dreyfus, his widow Margarita became the club's majority shareholder in 2010. , , , Olympique de Marseille were founded by René Dufaure de Montmirail , a French sports official , in 1892, as an omnisport club. Known as Sporting Club, US Phocéenne, and Football Club de Marseille in the first five years after their foundation, the club adopted the name Olympique de Marseille in 1899, in honour of the anniversary of Marseille's founding by Greeks from Phocaea some 25 centuries earlier, with the name Olympique, coming from ancient Olympic Games and the colours (reversed flag of Greece ) chosen to represent the club. , At first, rugby union was the most important team sport of the club, the motto Droit au but coming from rugby. Affiliated with the Union des Sociétés Françaises de Sports Athlétiques (USFSA) since 1898, it was only in 1902, thanks to English and German people (according to André Gascard ) , that football began to be played by Olympique de Marseille. Richer and better organised than other football teams of Marseille (Sporting, Stade, Phocéenne.) , Olympique de Marseille , playing at the Stade de l'Huveaune , took the leadership in the city. In 1904, Olympique de Marseille won the first Championnat du Littoral , opposing teams from Marseille and its suburbs, and took part in the final rounds of the eleventh French championship . At that time, the word "football" applied to rugby, and people used the word "Association" (which would be soccer in North America) for football. , During the twenties, Olympique de Marseille became an important team in France, winning the Coupe de France in 1924, 1926 and 1927. The team won the French championship in 1929, defeating Club français . The Coupe de France in 1924 was the club's first major title, won against FC Sète which dominated French football at the time. In the twenties, numerous French internationals such as Jules Dewaquez , Jean Boyer or Joseph Alcazar played for Marseille.  In 1930, Marseille lost against Sète, which would be the winner, in the semi-final round. In 1931, the team became champion of the South-East, with victories against rivals such as Sète. In the Coupe de France , l'OM lost in 5 matches to Club français , winning the second match which was cancelled due to the disqualification of the Marseille striker Vernicke. Even though the 1931–32 season was less successful, Marseille easily entered professionalism. In 1932, the team became a member of the union of professional clubs. On 13 January 1932 at 9:15 pm, at the Brasserie des Sports , Mr. Dard, Mr. Bison, Dr. Rollenstein, Mr. Etchepare, Mr. Leblanc, Mr. Mille, Mr. Anfosso, Mr. Sabatier, Mr. Seze, Mr. Bazat, Mr. Molteroj, and Mr. Pollack elected the following committee: Honorary presidents: Paul Le Cesne et Fernand Bouisson President: M. Dard Vice-Presidents: Mr. Leblanc, Mr. Bison, Mr. Etchepare, Dr. Rollenstein et Mr. Anfosso general secretary: Mr. Possel-Daydier Treasurer: Mr Bison (assisted by Mr Ribel). , For the first championship, Division 1 was divided into two pools. Marseille finished second in the first, behind Lille . For its first match of the championship, Marseille defeated the future champion, Lille . In 1937, Marseille won its first professional French championship thanks to goal difference (+30 for Marseille, +17 for FC Sochaux-Montbéliard ) . The arrival of Vasconcellos made the defence stronger, whereas former goalkeeper Laurent Di Lorto shone with Sochaux and France . In the meantime, Marseille won the Coupe de France in 1935 and 1938 but failed a double success in 1934, due to FC Sète . In 1938, Larbi Ben Barek signed with Marseille and became "the black pearl" for the team. World War II would cut his career short. The 1942–43 season was full of records: 100 goals in 30 matches, including 20 in one match (20–2 against Avignon ), in which Aznar scored 9 goals, including the first 8 (Marseille was leading 8–0), playing only 70 minutes. Aznar scored 45 goals in 30 matches, plus 11 in cup games, for a record of 56 goals in 38 matches. With the minots (young players) of the moment (Scotti, Robin, Dard, Pironti), Marseille won the cup in two matches against Bordeaux (4–0). In 1948, thanks to a draw against Sochaux , Marseille became the champions of France . The two last victories at the Stade Vélodrome against Roubaix (6–0) and FC Metz (6–3) were important, as Aznar and Robin's returned in spring. , In 1952, Marseille were about to be relegated, but Gunnar Andersson saved his team, finishing as top scorer with 31 goals. The team won (5–3) on aggregate against Valenciennes . The same year, Marseille lost at the Stade Vélodrome against Saint-Étienne 10–3, but Liberati was injured. In 1953, Gunnar Andersson would take the record of goals scored in one season with 35. Marseille was runner-up in the Coupe de France ( Nice won 2–1) in 1954 and the Coupe Drago in 1957 to ( Lens which won 3–1). Marseille were struggling at the time and were relegated for the first time in 1959. From 1959 to 1965, the team played in the second division, except during the 1962/63 season, finishing 20th out of 20 in the first division. In 1965, Marcel Leclerc became president. , The first period of Olympique de Marseille's domination of the French League started in the early '70s under Marcel Leclerc 's presidency (1965–1972). His ambition allowed Marseille to return to the First division in 1965–66. They went on to win the Coupe de France in 1969 as well as the First division in 1971 with a record of 44 goals by Josip Skoblar , helped by Roger Magnusson . The arrival of Georges Carnus and Bernard Bosquier from Saint-Étienne helped them to win the Ligue 1 and the Coupe de France in 1972. Marseille played in the European Cup in 1971–72 and 1972–73 but were defeated by AFC Ajax of Johan Cruijff and Juventus . However, success was not to last. Marcel Leclerc was forced to leave the club on 19 July 1972. The president was a stubborn man, and he threatened the whole league by threatening to withdraw his professional team from Ligue 1 because the federation refused to accept three foreign players in one team (Leclerc wanted to acquire the Hungarian star Zoltán Varga but he had already the maximum number of two foreigners in his team). But Marseille decided, instead of following Leclerc against the league, to fire him.  Then followed an era of crisis with Marseille only winning a Coupe de France in 1976 and being relegated to the second division, where they played with a bunch of young local players: the Minots who allowed the team to return to First division in 1984. Éric Di Meco was one of them. , On 12 April 1986, Bernard Tapie became president, thanks to Marseille mayor Gaston Defferre , and promptly built the greatest team ever seen in France. His first signings were Karl-Heinz Forster and Alain Giresse , who were bought after the 1986 FIFA World Cup . Tapie signed a large number of highly regarded players over the next few years in his pursuit of the European Cup, such as Jean-Pierre Papin , Chris Waddle , Klaus Allofs , Enzo Francescoli , Abedi Pelé , Didier Deschamps , Basile Boli , Marcel Desailly , Rudi Völler and Eric Cantona as well as appointing high-profile coaches like Franz Beckenbauer , Gérard Gili and Raymond Goethals . Between 1989 and 1992, Olympique de Marseille won 4 League titles in a row and the French Cup . The highlight of the club's history is winning the new format Champions League in 1993. Basile Boli scored the only goal against Italy's A.C. Milan in the final held in Munich 's Olympic Stadium . That triumph was the first time ever for a French club and it made Didier Deschamps and Fabien Barthez the youngest captain and goalkeeper, respectively, to capture the title. , This triumph, however, was followed by a decade of decline. In 1994, due to financial irregularities and a match fixing scandal involving then president Bernard Tapie , they suffered enforced relegation to the second division , where Marseille stayed two years before returning to the First division . Moreover, they lost their 1992–93 Division 1 title and the right to play in the UEFA Champions League 1993-94 , the 1993 European Super Cup and the 1993 Intercontinental Cup . This scandal, called l'affaire VA-OM (VA for Union Sportive Valenciennes-Anzin and OM for Olympique de Marseille), was exposed by Valenciennes , whose players Jacques Glassmann ,  Jorge Burruchaga  and Christophe Robert  were contacted by Marseille player Jean-Jacques Eydelie ,  to let OM win and, more importantly, not to injure any OM player ahead of the UEFA Champions League final. , Marseille returned to the top flight in 1996 with backing from Adidas 's owner Robert Louis-Dreyfus . He chose Rolland Courbis as coach, signed Fabrizio Ravanelli , Laurent Blanc , and Andreas Köpke , and Marseille finished 11th for his return. For the 1998–99 season , the team celebrated their centenary and built a team of stars: Robert Pirès , Florian Maurice , and Christophe Dugarry , culminating in a second-place finish in the French championship , behind Bordeaux and an appearance in the UEFA Cup Final in 1999 , losing to Parma . Courbis left the team in November 1999, after a poor start to the season. , The closest Marseille got to another trophy was when they reached the UEFA Cup Final in 2004 , impressively beating Dnipro , Internazionale , Liverpool , and Newcastle United along the way. But they were beaten in the final by newly crowned Spanish champions Valencia and once again fans were forced to continue waiting for the next trophy to come along. In 2005, Marseille succeeded in winning the Intertoto Cup , beating the likes of Lazio and Deportivo La Coruña in doing so, and earning another shot at the UEFA Cup . , In January 2007, there was negotiation between Louis-Dreyfus and Jack Kachkar , a Canadian doctor and businessman (CEO of pharmaceutical company Inyx ) , about selling the club. As Jack Kachkar took too much time to buy the team, Robert Louis-Dreyfus decided on 22 March 2007 not to sell to the Canadian businessman.  Another close call to glory was in the Coupe de France final against Sochaux in May 2007. However, they lost on penalties after a 2–2 draw after extra time, to the disappointment of everyone linked with the club, but they soon wiped all that disappointment away by qualifying for the 2007–08 UEFA Champions League group stage, after securing 2nd place with a game to go. , In the Champions League , Marseille became the first French team to win at Anfield when they beat 2007 runners-up Liverpool 1–0, and the team took 6 out of 6 points from their opening two games. They only drew one more match, and in a winner-takes-all final group game they lost 4–0 to Liverpool , who became the first English team to win at the Stade Vélodrome . Marseille, coming third in the Champions League Group A , then joined the UEFA Cup .  , Marseille finished the 2008–09 season with a second-place finish in Ligue 1 , following a tight race with Bordeaux for the title. This earned them direct entry into the group stages of the UEFA Champions League , their third consecutive season in the competition. Marseille won the 2010 Coupe de la Ligue Final beating Bordeaux 3–1 at the Stade de France in March 2010. This was their first major title since their Champions League triumph 17 years earlier. Two months later, Marseille won their first league championship for 18 years with two games to spare after beating Rennes 3–1.   Marseille defeated PSG on penalties to win the 2010 Trophée des Champions at Stade 7 Novembre in Rades , Tunisia before the season began. Marseille then became the first team to win back-to-back Coupe de la Ligue successes when they won the 2011 edition by beating Montpellier 1–0 on 23 April. Before that, they qualified for the last 16 of the UEFA Champions League for the first time since their historic success, but lost 2–1 at Old Trafford to Manchester United and also set a Champions League record by thrashing Žilina 7–0 in what was the biggest away win in the competition's history. In 2011, Marseille lost the Ligue 1 championship title but qualified for the UEFA Champions League for the fifth time in a row, a club record. On 27 July 2011, Marseille won the 2011 Trophée des Champions title by beating Lille 5–4 at Stade de Tanger in Morocco. The result was significant as OM were 3–1 down with 5 minutes to go, only to embark on a remarkable comeback which saw 5 goals scored in the last five minutes with Andre Ayew scoring a hat-trick. , The club struggled in the 2011–12 season, going to the bottom of the Ligue 1 table after six matches. Nevertheless, Marseille rebounded, winning 3–0 against Borussia Dortmund in the Champions League , as well as a 3–0 success over rivals PSG in November of that year. Marseille ended 2011 with a good sequence, and qualifying for the knockout stages of the Champions League for the second season running. , In February 2012, Marseille embarked on 13 games without victory,  but rallied to qualify for the quarter-finals of the Champions League for the first time since winning the competition in 1993 . Despite an indifferent club form, OM lost to eventual finalists FC Bayern Munich , and slumped to an overall 10th-place finish in Ligue 1 . However, the club retained the Coupe de la Ligue for the third year running, beating Olympique Lyonnais 1–0 in the final . , In the summer of 2012, Deschamps resigned, and later taking on the France job. Elie Baup took over, leading the club to a surprising second-place finish in the 2012-13 Ligue 1 season, despite selling off many players – including Loic Remy , Cesar Azpilicueta and Stephane Mbia . Marseille returned to the Champions League, spending close to €40 million on the likes of Dimitri Payet , Florian Thauvin and Giannelli Imbula . The club were top of the table at the end of August 2013. But OM proceeded to lose all six games in Europe , and suffered the ignominy of becoming the first French team, and the biggest European team to date, to have picked up zero points in a Champions League group stage. , Baup was sacked on 7 December 2013, following the 1–0 defeat to FC Nantes at Stade Velodrome. He was replaced on an interim basis by Jose Anigo . In Anigo's brief tenure, OM went out of the two cups, and struggled, leading to continued protests and jeers by fans. The club finished sixth in the 2014 season , missing out on an important European competition place for the first time in ten years. Anigo left the club soon after, taking on an ambassadorial/scouting role in North Africa, his first post outside of the city for more than four decades. , Marseille announced on 2 May 2014, an agreement with Marcelo Bielsa , who took the managerial hotseat. Bielsa is the club's first Argentine coach, and the first coach to lead the team into the renovated Velodrome, which opened in August with a fixture against Montpellier HSC . In Bielsa's first season in charge the club finished fourth and thus qualified for the Europa League . In June 2015, two key players, André-Pierre Gignac and André Ayew left the club for Tigres UANL and Swansea City A.F.C. respectively after their contracts expired. , Le Classique is a football match that is contested between Paris Saint-Germain and Olympique de Marseille. The term Classique is modelled on El Clásico , contested between Real Madrid and Barcelona . Like all the game's major rivalries, the antipathy between PSG and Marseille extends outside the pitch. The so-called French clásico has a historical, cultural and social importance that makes it more than just a football game, pitching capital against province and " Provence " and the chosen ones of French football against its enfants terribles .   With PSG being located in the north in the French capital and Marseille located along the Mediterranean coast , the rivalry is often referred to as "the North versus the South." PSG and Marseille are the only French clubs to have won European trophies , having won the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1996 and the UEFA Champions League in 1993 respectively, and were the two dominant forces before the emergence of Lyon at the beginning of the 21st century. However, despite their recent ups and downs, PSG and Marseille remain fierce rivals, giving this match a special atmosphere.   "Le classique" is also well known as "Le Classico". Most of French people use this term nowadays.  , From 1904 to 1937, Marseille played at the Stade de l'Huveaune . The club were the owner of the venue, unlike their current stadium. L'Huveaune, a time named "Stade Fernand Buisson" in honour of a former rugby player of the club who became deputee was renovated at the beginning of the twenties, thanks to supporter's financial help. It had a capacity of 15,000. After 1937, l'OM used this venue under Marcel Leclerc's presidency to compel the city of Marseille to lower the rent of Stade Vélodrome and during the renovation of Vélodrome for Euro 1984 , during the 1982/83 season. The stadium again underwent redevelopment in time for the 1998 World Cup and was transformed into an immense ground composed of two Curva ends (Virage Nord and Virage Sud – North Curve and South Curve) which house the supporters groups as well as the main stand, Jean Bouin, and the imposing Ganay stand. In its last uplift, the municipality covered the stadium and increased its capacity to 67,000 to host the Euro 2016 games. Before the start of each home game the song Jump by Van Halen is heard. When a goal is scored by Marseille in their home matches the song Come with Me by Puff Daddy is played. , Marseille's traditional kit colours were white shirts and shorts with blue socks until 1986. Since 1986, Marseille have played with white shirts, white shorts and white socks, and the blue color became lighter due to Adidas marketing but in 2012–2013, the club returned to its original kit, wearing blue socks. , Club founder René Dufaure de Montmirail drew inspiration from his personal seal , which featured interlaced letters "D" and "M" , to create the club's first badge. The club's motto, "Droit au but" , dates from the days when the club's main sport was rugby, under the name "Football Club de Marseille" . The original badge featured an ornate letter "M" superimposed over an "O", with the club motto draped across the glyph. The logo persisted for three decades, until 1935, when an art deco shield was adopted, with a simple "M" encased within the "O" . In 1972, OM redesigned its logo, this time preferring a complex "M" letterform. In 1986, the club re-adopted its first badge; the logo evolved slightly over the next few decades, gaining a star in 1993 to commemorate the club's UEFA Champions League trophy . To commemorate the club's 100th anniversary in 1999, a variant featuring a golden "O" and a turquoise "M" was used; a similar 110th anniversary logo was used during the 2009–10 season . The most recent form was revealed on 17 February 2004; the "O" and "M" are rendered as a single unit in turquoise without shading or borders, and the logo is capped by the golden star representing the victory in the Champions League and sits above. The club's motto Droit Au But (French for "Straight to the Goal") also rendered in gold appears under the badge. , The atmosphere in the Stade Vélodrome is created by the dominance of OM's own supporters who are housed in the Curva style ends behind the goals. The North Curve is home to the Yankee Nord Marseille, Marseille Trop Puissant, Fanatics, and Dodgers supporters associations who buy up the tickets at the start of each season and sell them on to their members. The Virage Nord is situated next to the away enclosure, which is protected by high fences. In 2002, the Virage Nord was officially given the name of Patrice de Peretti (1972–2000) , the late founder and leader of the supporters group Marseille Trop Puissant. In 2010, the third kit of Olympique was a tribute to MTP, with the red, yellow and green colours of Africa, symbols of this left-wing curva. , As with the Virage Nord, the South Curve is controlled by supporter's associations with the Commando Ultras 1984 and the South Winners dominating the central section and Amis de l'OM and Club Central des Supporteurs filling the remaining sections of the stand. The 2007/08 third shirt of OM was a tribute to South Winners fans whose colours are orange, as they are traditionally left winged fans. , There is a strong relationship between AS Livorno , AEK Athens , UC Sampdoria and Marseille. Marseille fans often lift banners and create choreography in support of the fellow teams. , Marseille has won the French national championship 10 times, even if with nine French Ligue 1 is second only to AS Saint-Étienne 's total of ten (The first championship won by Marseille was in 1929, before the professional era of French football).  Marseille also have the record in Coupe de France titles (with 10).  Marseille have achieved two Championship and Cup " Doubles " (in 1972 and 1989).  They are the only French club to win the UEFA Champions League , in 1993 .  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , 28 Mathieu Valbuena , Midfielder , On 5 August 2014, Olympique de Marseille retired the number 28 shirt in honour of former player Mathieu Valbuena, who made 227 appearances for the club from 2006 to 2014.  , The following players have won the Ballon d'Or whilst playing for Olympique de Marseille: , Two other former Ballon d'Or winners were hired by Olympique de Marseille: George Weah played for Marseille in 2000–01 after winning the Ballon d'Or in 1995 and Franz Beckenbauer coached the team for 6 months in 1990. , The following players have won the European Golden Shoe whilst playing for Olympique de Marseille: , The following players have won the UNFP Player of the Year whilst playing for Olympique de Marseille:  Ballspielverein Borussia 09 e.V. Dortmund , commonly known as Borussia Dortmund [boˈʁʊsi̯a ˈdɔʁtmʊnt] ,  Dortmund , or BVB , is a German sports club based in Dortmund , North Rhine-Westphalia. The football team is part of a large membership-based sports club with more than 115,000 members,  making BVB the third largest sports club by membership in Germany. Dortmund plays in the Bundesliga , the top tier of the German football league system . Dortmund is one of the most successful clubs in German football history.   , Borussia Dortmund was founded in 1909 by seventeen football players from Dortmund. Borussia Dortmund have won eight German championships , three DFB-Pokals , five DFL-Supercups , one UEFA Champions League , one UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , and one Intercontinental Cup . Their Cup Winners' Cup win in 1966 made them the first German club to win a European title. , Since 1974, Dortmund have played their home games at Westfalenstadion . The stadium is the largest in Germany and Dortmund has the highest average attendance of any association football club in the world.  Borussia Dortmund's colours are black and yellow, giving the club its nickname die Schwarzgelben .   Dortmund holds a long-standing rivalry with Ruhr neighbours Schalke , known as the Revierderby . Dortmund also has a rivalry with Bayern Munich . In terms of Deloitte 's annual Football Money League , Dortmund is the second biggest sports club in Germany and the eleventh biggest football team in the world.  , , , The club was founded on 19 December 1909 by a group of young men unhappy with church-sponsored Trinity Youth , where they played football under the stern and unsympathetic eye of the local parish priest. Father Dewald was blocked at the door when he tried to break up the organizing meeting being held in a room of the local pub, Zum Wildschütz . The founders were Franz and Paul Braun, Henry Cleve, Hans Debest, Paul Dziendzielle, Julius and Wilhelm Jacobi, Hans Kahn, Gustav Müller, Franz Risse, Fritz Schulte, Hans Siebold, August Tönnesmann, Heinrich and Robert Unger, Fritz Weber and Franz Wendt. The name Borussia is Latin for Prussia but was taken from the Borussia beer from the nearby Borussia brewery in Dortmund.  The team began playing in blue and white striped shirts with a red sash, and black shorts. In 1913, they donned the black and yellow stripes so familiar today. , Over the next decades the club enjoyed only modest success playing in local leagues. They had a brush with bankruptcy in 1929 when an attempt to boost the club's fortunes by signing some paid professional footballers failed miserably and left the team deep in debt. They survived only through the generosity of a local supporter who covered the team's shortfall out of his own pocket. , The 1930s saw the rise of the Third Reich which restructured sports and football organizations throughout the nation to suit the regime's goals. Borussia' s president was replaced when he refused to join the Nazi Party , and a couple of members who surreptitiously used the club's offices to produce anti-Nazi pamphlets were executed in the last days of the war. The club did have greater success in the newly established Gauliga Westfalen , but would have to wait until after World War II to make a breakthrough. It was during this time that Borussia developed its intense rivalry with FC Schalke 04 of suburban Gelsenkirchen , the most successful side of the era (see Revierderby ). Like every other organisation in Germany, Borussia was dissolved by the Allied occupation authorities after the war in an attempt to distance the country's institutions from the so-recent Nazi past. There was a short-lived attempt to merge the club with two others – Werksportgemeinschaft Hoesch and Freier Sportverein 98 – as Sportgemeinschaft Borussia von 1898 , but it was as Ballspiel-Verein Borussia ( BVB ) that they made their first appearance in the national league final in 1949 where they lost 2–3 to VfR Mannheim . [ citation needed ] , Between 1946 and 1963, Borussia featured in the Oberliga West , a first division league which dominated German football through the late 1950s. In 1949 , Borussia reached the final in Stuttgart against VfR Mannheim , which they lost 2–3 after extra time. The club claimed its first national title in 1956 with a 4–2 win against Karlsruher SC . One year later, Borussia defeated Hamburger SV 4–1 to win their second national title . After this coup the three Alfredos ( Alfred Preißler , Alfred Kelbassa and Alfred Niepieklo) were legends in Dortmund. In 1963 , Borussia won the last edition of the German Football Championship before the introduction of the new Bundesliga to secure their third national title. , In 1962, the DFB met in Dortmund and voted to finally establish a professional football league in Germany to begin play in August 1963 as the Bundesliga . Borussia Dortmund earned its place among the first sixteen clubs to play in the new league by winning the last pre-Bundesliga national championship. Losing club 1. FC Köln also earned an automatic berth. It was Dortmund's Friedhelm Konietzka who scored the first-ever Bundesliga goal barely a minute into a match which they would eventually lose 2–3 to Werder Bremen . , In 1965 , Dortmund captured its first DFB-Pokal . In 1966, Dortmund won the European Cup Winners' Cup 2–1 against Liverpool in extra time with the goals coming from Sigfried Held and Reinhard Libuda . In the same year, however, the team surrendered a commanding position atop the Bundesliga by losing four of their last five league games and finished second, three points behind champions TSV 1860 München . Ironically, much of 1860's success came on the strength of the play of Konietzka, recently transferred there from Dortmund. , The 1970s were characterized by financial problems and relegation from the Bundesliga in 1972 and the opening of the Westfalenstadion , named after its home region Westphalia in 1974. The club earned its return to Bundesliga in 1976. , Dortmund continued to suffer from financial problems through the 1980s. BVB narrowly avoided being relegated again in 1986 by winning a third decisive play-off-game against Fortuna Köln after finishing the regular season in 16th place. , Dortmund did not enjoy any significant success again until a 4–1 DFB-Pokal win in 1989 against SV Werder Bremen . It was Horst Köppel 's first trophy as a manager. Dortmund then won the 1989 DFL-Supercup 4–3 against rivals Bayern Munich. , After a tenth-place finish in the Bundesliga in 1991 , manager Horst Köppel was let go and manager Ottmar Hitzfeld was hired. , In 1992 , Hitzfeld led Borussia Dortmund to a second-place finish in the Bundesliga and could have won the title had VfB Stuttgart not won their last game to become champions instead. , Along with a fourth-place finish in the Bundesliga, Dortmund in 1993 made it to the UEFA Cup final , which they lost 6–1 on aggregate to Juventus . In spite of this result, Borussia walked away with DM 25 million under the prize money pool system in place at the time for German sides participating in the Cup. Cash flush, Dortmund was able to sign players who later brought them numerous honours in the 1990s. , Under the captaincy of 1996 European Footballer of the Year Matthias Sammer , Borussia Dortmund won back-to-back Bundesliga titles in 1995 and 1996 . Dortmund also won the DFL-Supercup against Mönchengladbach in 1995 and Kaiserslautern in 1996 . , In 1996–97 the team reached its first European Cup final . In a memorable 1997 UEFA Champions League Final at the Olympiastadion in Munich , Dortmund faced the holders Juventus . Karl-Heinz Riedle put Dortmund ahead, shooting under goalkeeper Angelo Peruzzi from a cross by Paul Lambert . Riedle then made it two with a bullet header from a corner kick. In the second half, Alessandro Del Piero pulled one back for Juventus with a back heel. Then 20-year old substitute and local boy Lars Ricken latched on to a through pass by Andreas Möller . Only 16 seconds after coming on to the pitch, Ricken chipped Peruzzi in the Juventus goal from over 20 yards out with his first touch of the ball. With Zinedine Zidane unable to make an impression for Juventus against the close marking of Lambert,    Dortmund lifted the trophy with a 3–1 victory. , Dortmund then went on to beat Brazilian club Cruzeiro 2–0 in the 1997 Intercontinental Cup Final to become world club champions.  Borussia Dortmund were the second German club to win the Intercontinental Cup, after Bayern Munich in 1976 .  , At the turn of the millennium, Borussia Dortmund became the first—and so far the only—publicly traded club on the German stock market. , In 2002 , Borussia Dortmund won their third Bundesliga title. Dortmund had a remarkable run at the end of the season to overtake Bayer Leverkusen , securing the title on the final day. Manager Matthias Sammer became the first person in Borussia Dortmund history to win the Bundesliga as a player and manager.  In the same season, Borussia lost the final of the 2001–02 UEFA Cup to Dutch side Feyenoord . , Dortmund's fortunes then steadily declined for a number of years. Poor financial management led to a heavy debt load and the sale of their Westfalenstadion ground. The situation was compounded by failure to advance in the 2003–04 UEFA Champions League when the team was eliminated on penalties in the qualifying rounds by Club Brugge . In 2003, Bayern Munich loaned €2 million to Dortmund for a couple of months to pay their payroll. Borussia was again driven to the brink of bankruptcy in 2005, the original €11 value of its shares having plummeted by over 80% on the Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse ( Frankfurt Stock Exchange ). The response to the crisis included a 20% pay cut to all players.  , The team still plays at Westfalenstadion, named after its home region of Westphalia . To reduce debts, the stadium was renamed "Signal Iduna Park", after a local insurance company, in 2006 under a sponsorship agreement that runs until 2016. The stadium is currently the largest football stadium in Germany with a capacity of 80,720 spectators, and hosted several matches in the 2006 FIFA World Cup , including a semi-final. Borussia Dortmund enjoys the highest average attendance of any football club in Europe, at 80,478 per match (2010–11). , Dortmund suffered a miserable start to the 2005–06 season, but rallied to finish seventh. The club failed to gain a place in the UEFA Cup via the Fair Play draw. The club's management recently indicated that the club again showed a profit; this was largely related to the sale of David Odonkor to Real Betis and Tomáš Rosický to Arsenal . , In the 2006–07 season, Dortmund unexpectedly faced serious relegation trouble for the first time in years. Dortmund went through three coaches and appointed Thomas Doll on 13 March 2007 after dropping to just one point above the relegation zone. Christoph Metzelder also left Borussia Dortmund on a free transfer. , In the 2007–08 season, Dortmund lost to many of the smaller clubs in the Bundesliga. That season was one of the worst in 20 years. Nevertheless, Dortmund reached the DFB-Pokal Final against Bayern Munich, where they lost 2–1 in extra time. The final appearance qualified Dortmund for the UEFA Cup because Bayern already qualified for the Champions League . Thomas Doll resigned on 19 May 2008 and was replaced by Jürgen Klopp . , In the 2009–10 season, Dortmund qualified for the UEFA Europa League and finished fifth in the Bundesliga. The team missed an opportunity to qualify for the Champions League by failing to beat eighth placed VfL Wolfsburg and 14th placed SC Freiburg in the final two matches of the campaign. Nonetheless, they demonstrated a renewed charisma and passion under the direction of coach Jürgen Klopp . , Entering the 2010–11 season, Dortmund fielded a young and vibrant roster which looked better. On 4 December 2010, Borussia became Herbstmeister (Autumn Champion), an unofficial accolade going to the league leader at the winter break. They did this three matches before the break, sharing the record for having achieved this earliest with Eintracht Frankfurt (1993–94) and 1. FC Kaiserslautern (1997–98).  On 30 April 2011, the club beat 1. FC Nuremberg 2–0 at home, while second-placed Bayer Leverkusen lost, leaving Dortmund eight points clear with two games to play. This championship equaled the seven national titles held by rivals Schalke 04 , and guaranteed a spot in the 2011–12 UEFA Champions League group stages.  , One year later, Dortmund made a successful defense of its Bundesliga title with a win over Borussia Mönchengladbach , again on the 32nd matchday. By the 34th and final matchday, Dortmund set a new record with the most points—81—ever gained by a club in one Bundesliga season.   This was surpassed the following season by Bayern Munich's 91 points.  The club's eighth championship places it third in total national titles and players will now wear two stars over their uniform crest in recognition of the team's five Bundesliga titles. Notable names from the winning roster include Lucas Barrios , Mario Götze , Neven Subotić , Mats Hummels , Robert Lewandowski , Shinji Kagawa , Łukasz Piszczek , Jakub Błaszczykowski , Kevin Großkreutz , Ivan Perišić , and İlkay Gündoğan . The club capped its successful 2011–12 season by winning the double for the first time by beating Bayern Munich 5–2 in the final of the DFB-Pokal . Borussia Dortmund are one of four German clubs to win the Bundesliga and DFB-Pokal double along with Bayern Munich, 1. FC Köln , and Werder Bremen .  The club was voted Team of the Year 2011 at the annual Sportler des Jahres (German Sports Personality of the Year) awards. , Borussia Dortmund ended the 2012–13 season in second place in the Bundesliga . Dortmund played in their second UEFA Champions League Final against Bayern Munich in the first ever all-German club final at Wembley Stadium on 25 May 2013 which they lost 2–1.  , In the 2013–14 season , Borussia Dortmund won the 2013 DFL-Supercup 4–2 against rivals Bayern Munich.  The 2013–14 season started with a five-game winning streak for Dortmund, their best start to a season. Despite such a promising start however, their season was hampered by injuries to several key players which saw them stoop as low as fourth place in the table, and with a depleted squad could only go as far as the quarter-finals of the UEFA Champions League losing 3–2 on aggregate to Real Madrid . Nevertheless, Dortmund managed to end their season on a high by finishing second in the Bundesliga and reaching the DFB-Pokal Final losing 0–2 to Bayern Munich in extra time.  They then began their 2014–15 season by defeating Bayern Munich in the 2014 DFL-Supercup 2–0. However, this victory would not be enough to inspire the squad to a solid performance at the start of the ensuing season, with Dortmund recording various results such as a 0–1 loss to Hamburger SV, a 2–2 draws against both VfB Stuttgart and Bundesliga newcomer SC Paderborn.  In winter, Dortmund fell to the bottom of the table on multiple occasions, but managed to escape the relegation zone after four consecutive wins in February.  On 15 April 2015, Jürgen Klopp announced that after seven years, he would be leaving Dortmund.  Four days later, Dortmund announced Thomas Tuchel would replace Klopp at the end of the season.  However, Klopp's resign from Dortmund ended on high note, rising and finishing 7th after facing relegation, gaining a DFB-Pokal final with Wolfsburg, and qualifying for the Europa League. , 1945–64 , 1964–74 , 1976–78 , 1974–76 and 1978–93 , 1993–present , The Westfalenstadion is the home stadium of Borussia Dortmund. It is Germany's biggest stadium and the seventh biggest stadium in Europe.  The stadium is officially named "Signal Iduna Park". The insurance company Signal Iduna purchased the rights to name the stadium until 2021.  However this name cannot be used when hosting FIFA and UEFA events, since these governing bodies have policies forbidding corporate sponsorship from companies that are not official tournament partners. During the 2006 FIFA World Cup , the stadium was referred to as "FIFA World Cup Stadium, Dortmund". In UEFA club matches, it is known as "BVB Stadion Dortmund". The stadium now hosts up to 80,645 fans (standing and seated) for league matches, and 65,829 seated spectators for international games.  For these, the characteristic southern grandstand is re-equipped with seats to conform with FIFA regulations. , In 1974, the Westfalenstadion replaced the Stadion Rote Erde , which is located next door and serves now as the stadium of Borussia Dortmund II . After the increasing popularity of Borussia Dortmund in the 1960s, it became obvious that the traditional ground was too small for the increasing number of Borussia Dortmund supporters. The city of Dortmund, however, was not able to finance a new stadium and federal institutions were unwilling to help. But in 1971, Dortmund was selected to replace the city of Cologne , which was forced to withdraw its plans to host games in the 1974 FIFA World Cup . The funds originally set aside for the projected stadium in Cologne were thus re-allocated to Dortmund and a new stadium became a reality. , The Westfalenstadion has undergone several renovations throughout the years to increase the size of the stadium, including an expansion of the stadium for the 2006 World Cup. In 2008, the Borusseum , a museum about Borussia Dortmund opened in the stadium. [ citation needed ] In 2011, Borussia Dortmund agreed a partnership with Q-Cells . The company installed 8,768 solar cells on the roof of the Westfalenstadion to generate up to 860,000  kWh per year. [ citation needed ] , Borussia Dortmund has the highest average attendance of any football club worldwide .  In 2014, it was estimated that each of the club's home games is attended by around 1,000 British spectators, drawn to the team by its low ticket prices compared to the Premier League .  , Borussia Dortmund's training ground and Academy base Hohenbuschei is located in Brackel, a district of Dortmund  Inside the complex, there are physical exercise training for physical fitness and rehabilitation robotics areas, physiotherapy and massage rooms, and remedial and hydrotherapy pools . There are also sauna rooms , steam rooms and weight rooms , classrooms , conference halls , offices for the BVB front office , a restaurant , and a TV studio to interview the BVB professional footballers and coaching staff for BVB total! . On the grounds, there are five grass pitches , two of which has under-soil heating , one artificial grass field , two small grass pitches and a multi-functional sports arena . The site covers a total area of 18,000 m 2 (190,000 sq ft).  Besides Dortmund owns the Footbonaut , a training robot which is effectively a 14 m 2 (150 sq ft) training cage.  [ better source needed ] , Borussia Dortmund e. V. is represented by its management board and board of directors consisting of the president Dr. Reinhard Rauball , his proxy and vice president Gerd Pieper and the treasurer Dr. Reinhold Lunow.  , Professional football at Dortmund is run by the organization Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA . This corporation model has two types of participators: at least one partner with unlimited liability and at least one partner with limited liability . The investment of the latter is divided into stocks . The organization Borussia Dortmund GmbH is the partner with unlimited liability and is responsible for the management and representation of Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA. Borussia Dortmund GmbH is fully owned by the sports club, Borussia Dortmund e. V. This organizational structure was designed to ensure that the sports club has full control over the professional squad.  , The stocks of Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA was floated on the stock market in October 2000 and it is listed in the General Standard of Deutsche Börse AG. Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA became the first and so far the only publicly traded sports club on the German stock market. 7,24% of Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA is owned by the sports club; the Borussia Dortmund e. V., 11,71% by Bernd Geske and 81,05% are widely spread shareholdings .  Hans-Joachim Watzke is the CEO and Thomas Treß is the CFO of the GmbH & Co. KGaA. Michael Zorc as sporting director is responsible for the first team, the coaching staff , the youth and junior section, and scouting .  The supervisory board consists among others of the politicians Friedrich Merz and Peer Steinbrück .  , BVB's main advertising partner and current holder of the kit rights is Evonik .  The insurance company Signal Iduna purchased the rights to name the Westfalenstadion Signal Iduna Park until 2021.  The main supplier of the sports club is Puma SE .  In addition there are three different levels of partners; BVBChampionPartner include among others Opel , Turkish Airlines , Brinkhoff's , Wilo , Hankook and Huawei ; BVBPartner include among others EA Sports , Coca-Cola Zero , MAN , Norton , REWE and Ruhr Nachrichten ; and BVBProduktPartner include among others Westfalenhallen , Sennheiser , TEDi , Dorma , Ramada and McDonald's .  Since 2012, Brixental in the Kitzbühel Alps in Austria is a BVB sponsor as well, furthermore the region is host of one of the annual summer training camps.  , Borussia Dortmund e. V. and Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA economic indicators reveal that; BVB generating revenues of €305.1 million (US$407.6 million) from September 2012 to August 2013.   , According to the 2015 Deloitte 's annual Football Money League , BVB generated revenues of €261.5 million during the 2013–14 season. The figure excludes player transfer fees, VAT and other sales related taxes.  , Since 2005 Dortmund's shirts have been sponsored by Evonik . 1[›]  Previous sponsors have been City of Dortmund (1974–76), Samson (1976–78), Prestolith (1978–80), UHU (1980–83), Artic (ice cream) (1983–86),  Die Continentale (1986–97), s.Oliver (1997–2000), and E.ON (2000–05). The club's kit manufacturer is currently Puma , who will remain in that position until 2020.   Previous manufacturers have been Adidas (1974–90), Nike (1990–2000, 2004–09), Goool.de (2000–04), and Kappa (2009–12). , Borussia Dortmund has raised money for charity over the years for various causes. On 17 May 2011, Borussia Dortmund held a charity game for the 2011 Japan earthquake and tsunami against "Team Japan". The ticket sales of the game and €1 million from Dortmund's main sponsor Evonik went to charity for the Japan earthquake and tsunami.  In November 2012, Borussia Dortmund KGaA founded a charitable trust called leuchte auf , to give important social projects financial help.  The trust's logo is a star, consisting of the streets which meet at Dortmund's Borsigplatz, where the club was founded. On 6 July 2013, Borussia Dortmund held a charity game to raise money for 2013 German flood victims in the German states of Saxony and Saxony-Anhalt .  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , For recent transfers, see List of German football transfers winter 2013–14 and List of German football transfers summer 2014 . , In July 1935 Fritz Thelen became the club's first full-time head coach. But Thelen wasn't available in the first months of the season, so that Borussia Dortmund player and Germany international Ernst Kuzorra take over for the first time of the season instead.   In 1966, Willi Multhaup leading his side to clinch the European Cup Winners' Cup and Dortmund became the first German team to win a European trophy. Horst Köppel was the coach to bring major silverware to the club for the first time after over 20 years, winning the DFB-Pokal in 1989. Ottmar Hitzfeld was the club's most successful coach, having won the Bundesliga and the Supercup each twice. In 1997, Dortmund had to wait for continental success for over 30 years, Hitzfeld crowned his period with an unexpected triumph and won the Champions League . Dortmund won the Intercontinental Cup in 1997 and head coach Nevio Scala became the first and so far the only non-native speaker who won a major title. In 2001–02 , Matthias Sammer , a former BVB player, brought the league title back to Dortmund. In 2008–09 , the club approached 1. FSV Mainz 05 head coach Jürgen Klopp . He won the club's 7th championship title in the 2010–11 season . In his fourth season , Dortmund won the Bundesliga and the DFB-Pokal to complete the first league and cup double in the club's history. [ citation needed ] , Borussia Dortmund's name is attached to a number of Bundesliga records: , Dortmund has won 19 major trophies  Chelsea Football Club / ˈ tʃ ɛ l s iː / are a professional football club based in Fulham , London , who play in the Premier League , the highest level of English football. Founded in 1905, the club have spent most of their history in the top tier of English football. The club's home ground is the 41,837-seat Stamford Bridge stadium, where they have played since their establishment.  , One of the most successful clubs in English football, Chelsea had their first major success in 1955 , when they won the league championship, and subsequently won various cup competitions between 1965 and 1990. The club have enjoyed their greatest period of success in the past two decades, winning 17 major trophies since 1997 .  Domestically, Chelsea have won five league titles , seven FA Cups , five League Cups and four FA Community Shields , while in continental competitions they have won one UEFA Champions League , two UEFA Cup Winners' Cups , one UEFA Europa League and one UEFA Super Cup . Chelsea are the only London club to win the UEFA Champions League,  and one of four clubs , and the only British club, to have won all three main UEFA club competitions.   , Chelsea's regular kit colours are royal blue shirts and shorts with white socks. The club's crest has been changed several times in attempts to re-brand the club and modernise its image. The current crest, featuring a ceremonial lion rampant regardant holding a staff, is a modification of the one introduced in the early 1950s.  The club have sustained the fifth-highest average all-time attendance in English football .  Their average home gate for the 2013–14 season was 41,572, the seventh highest in the Premier League.  Since July 2003, Chelsea have been owned by Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich .  In May 2015 they were ranked by Forbes Magazine as the sixth most valuable football club in the world , at £898 million ($1.37 billion).  , , , In 1904, Gus Mears acquired the Stamford Bridge athletics stadium with the aim of turning it into a football ground. An offer to lease it to nearby Fulham was turned down, so Mears opted to found his own club to use the stadium. As there was already a team named Fulham in the borough, the name of the adjacent borough of Chelsea was chosen for the new club; names like Kensington FC , Stamford Bridge FC and London FC were also considered.  Chelsea were founded on 10 March 1905 at The Rising Sun pub (now The Butcher's Hook),   opposite the present-day main entrance to the ground on Fulham Road , and were elected to the Football League shortly afterwards. , The club won promotion to the First Division in their second season, and yo-yoed between the First and Second Divisions in their early years. They reached the 1915 FA Cup Final , where they lost to Sheffield United at Old Trafford, and finished third in the First Division in 1920, the club's best league campaign to that point.  Chelsea attracted large crowds  and had a reputation for signing big-name players,  but success continued to elude the club in the inter-war years. , Former Arsenal and England centre-forward Ted Drake became manager in 1952 and proceeded to modernise the club. He removed the club's Chelsea pensioner crest, improved the youth set-up and training regime, rebuilt the side with shrewd signings from the lower divisions and amateur leagues, and led Chelsea to their first major trophy success – the League championship – in 1954–55 . The following season saw UEFA create the European Champions' Cup , but after objections from The Football League and the FA Chelsea were persuaded to withdraw from the competition before it started.  Chelsea failed to build on this success, and spent the remainder of the 1950s in mid-table. Drake was dismissed in 1961 and replaced by player-coach Tommy Docherty . , Docherty built a new team around the group of talented young players emerging from the club's youth set-up and Chelsea challenged for honours throughout the 1960s, enduring several near-misses. They were on course for a treble of League, FA Cup and League Cup going into the final stages of the 1964–65 season, winning the League Cup but faltering late on in the other two.  In three seasons the side were beaten in three major semi-finals and were FA Cup runners-up. Under Docherty's successor, Dave Sexton , Chelsea won the FA Cup in 1970 , beating Leeds United 2–1 in a final replay. Chelsea took their first European honour, a UEFA Cup Winners' Cup triumph, the following year, with another replayed win, this time over Real Madrid in Athens. , The late 1970s through to the 1980s was a turbulent period for Chelsea. An ambitious redevelopment of Stamford Bridge threatened the financial stability of the club,  star players were sold and the team were relegated. Further problems were caused by a notorious hooligan element among the support, which was to plague the club throughout the decade.  In 1982, Chelsea were, at the nadir of their fortunes, acquired by Ken Bates for the nominal sum of £1, although by now the Stamford Bridge freehold had been sold to property developers, meaning the club faced losing their home.  On the pitch, the team had fared little better, coming close to relegation to the Third Division for the first time, but in 1983 manager John Neal put together an impressive new team for minimal outlay. Chelsea won the Second Division title in 1983–84 and established themselves in the top division, before being relegated again in 1988. The club bounced back immediately by winning the Second Division championship in 1988–89. , After a long-running legal battle, Bates reunited the stadium freehold with the club in 1992 by doing a deal with the banks of the property developers, who had been bankrupted by a market crash.  Chelsea's form in the new Premier League was unconvincing, although they did reach the 1994 FA Cup Final with Glenn Hoddle . It was not until the appointment of Ruud Gullit as player-manager in 1996 that their fortunes changed. He added several top international players to the side, as the club won the FA Cup in 1997 and established themselves as one of England's top sides again. Gullit was replaced by Gianluca Vialli , who led the team to victory in the League Cup Final , the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup Final and the UEFA Super Cup in 1998, the FA Cup in 2000 and their first appearance in the UEFA Champions League . Vialli was sacked in favour of Claudio Ranieri , who guided Chelsea to the 2002 FA Cup Final and Champions League qualification in 2002–03. , In June 2003, Bates sold Chelsea to Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich for £140 million.  Over £100 million was spent on new players, but Ranieri was unable to deliver any trophies,  and was replaced by José Mourinho .  Under Mourinho, Chelsea became the fifth English team to win back-to-back league championships since the Second World War ( 2004–05 and 2005–06 ),  in addition to winning an FA Cup ( 2007 ) and two League Cups ( 2005 and 2007 ). Mourinho was replaced by Avram Grant ,  who led the club to their first UEFA Champions League final , which they lost on penalties to Manchester United . , In 2009, Guus Hiddink guided Chelsea to another FA Cup success .  In 2009–10 , his successor Carlo Ancelotti led them to their first Premier League and FA Cup " Double ", and becoming the first English top-flight club to score 100 league goals in a season since 1963 .  In 2012, caretaker manager Roberto Di Matteo led Chelsea to their seventh FA Cup ,  and their first UEFA Champions League title , beating Bayern Munich 4–3 on penalties,  the first London club to win the trophy.  In 2013 Interim manager Rafael Benítez guided Chelsea to win the UEFA Europa League against Benfica ,  becoming the first club to hold two major European titles simultaneously and one of four clubs , and the only British club, to have won all three of UEFA 's major club competitions.  In the summer of 2013 Mourinho returned as manager, and led Chelsea to League Cup success in March 2015,  and their fifth league title two months later.  , Chelsea have only had one home ground, Stamford Bridge, where they have played since the team's foundation. It was officially opened on 28 April 1877 and for the first 28 years of its existence it was used almost exclusively by the London Athletic Club as an arena for athletics meetings and not at all for football. In 1904 the ground was acquired by businessman Gus Mears and his brother Joseph , who had also purchased nearby land (formerly a large market garden) with the aim of staging football matches on the now 12.5 acre (51,000 m²) site.  Stamford Bridge was designed for the Mears family by the noted football architect Archibald Leitch , who had also designed Ibrox , Celtic Park and Hampden Park .  Most football clubs were founded first, and then sought grounds in which to play, but Chelsea were founded for Stamford Bridge. , Starting with an open bowl-like design and one covered terrace, Stamford Bridge had an original capacity of around 100,000.  The early 1930s saw the construction of a terrace on the southern part of the ground with a roof that covered around one fifth of the stand. It eventually became known as the "Shed End", the home of Chelsea's most loyal and vocal supporters, particularly during the 1960s, 70s and 80s. The exact origins of the name are unclear, but the fact that the roof looked like a corrugated iron shed roof played a part.  , In the early 1970s the club's owners announced a modernisation of Stamford Bridge with plans for a state-of-the-art 50,000 all-seater stadium.  Work began on the East Stand in 1972 but the project was beset with problems and was never completed; the cost brought the club close to bankruptcy, culminating in the freehold being sold to property developers. Following a long legal battle, it was not until the mid-1990s that Chelsea's future at the stadium was secured and renovation work resumed.  The north, west and southern parts of the ground were converted into all-seater stands and moved closer to the pitch, a process completed by 2001. , When Stamford Bridge was redeveloped in the Bates era many additional features were added to the complex including two hotels, apartments, bars, restaurants, the Chelsea Megastore, and an interactive visitor attraction called Chelsea World of Sport. The intention was that these facilities would provide extra revenue to support the football side of the business, but they were less successful than hoped and before the Abramovich takeover in 2003 the debt taken on to finance them was a major burden on the club. Soon after the takeover a decision was taken to drop the "Chelsea Village" brand and refocus on Chelsea as a football club. However, the stadium is sometimes still referred to as part of "Chelsea Village" or "The Village" . , The Stamford Bridge freehold , the pitch , the turnstiles and Chelsea's naming rights are now owned by Chelsea Pitch Owners , a non-profit organisation in which fans are the shareholders. The CPO was created to ensure the stadium could never again be sold to developers. As a condition for using the Chelsea FC name, the club has to play its first team matches at Stamford Bridge, which means that if the club moves to a new stadium, they may have to change their name.  Chelsea's training ground is located in Cobham, Surrey . Chelsea moved to Cobham in 2004. Their previous training ground in Harlington was taken over by QPR in 2005.  The new training facilities in Cobham were completed in 2007.  , Stamford Bridge has been used for a variety of other sporting events since 1905. It hosted the FA Cup Final from 1920 to 1922,  has held ten FA Cup semi-finals (most recently in 1978 ), ten FA Charity Shield matches (the last in 1970 ), and three England international matches, the last in 1932; it was also the venue for an unofficial Victory International in 1946.  The 2013 UEFA Women's Champions League Final was played at Stamford Bridge.  , In October 1905 it hosted a rugby union match between the All Blacks and Middlesex,  and in 1914 hosted a baseball match between the touring New York Giants and the Chicago White Sox .  It was the venue for a boxing match between world flyweight champion Jimmy Wilde and Joe Conn in 1918.  The running track was used for dirt track racing between 1928 and 1932,  greyhound racing from 1933 to 1968, and Midget car racing in 1948.  In 1980, Stamford Bridge hosted the first international floodlit cricket match in the UK, between Essex and the West Indies .  It was also the home stadium of the London Monarchs American Football team for the 1997 season .  , The current club ownership have stated that a larger stadium is necessary in order for Chelsea to stay competitive with rival clubs who have significantly larger stadia, such as Arsenal and Manchester United.  Owing to its location next to a main road and two railway lines, fans can only enter the ground via the Fulham Road exits, which places constraints on expansion due to health and safety regulations.  The club have consistently affirmed their desire to keep Chelsea at their current home,    but Chelsea have nonetheless been linked with a move to various nearby sites, including the Earls Court Exhibition Centre , Battersea Power Station and the Chelsea Barracks .  On 3 October 2011, Chelsea made a proposal to CPO shareholders to buy back the freehold to the land on which Stamford Bridge sits, stating that "buying back the freehold removes a potential hurdle should a suitable site become available in the future".  The proposal was voted down by CPO shareholders.  In May 2012, the club made a formal bid to purchase Battersea Power Station, with a view to developing the site into a 60,000 seater stadium,  but lost out to a Malaysian consortium.  , Since the club's foundation, Chelsea have had four main crests , which all underwent minor variations. In 1905, Chelsea adopted as their first crest the image of a Chelsea pensioner , which contributed to the "pensioner" nickname, and remained for the next half-century, though it never appeared on the shirts. As part of Ted Drake 's modernisation of the club from 1952 onwards, he insisted that the pensioner badge be removed from the match day programme to change the club's image and that a new crest be adopted.  As a stop-gap, a temporary emblem comprising simply the initials C.F.C. was adopted for one year. In 1953, Chelsea's crest was changed to an upright blue lion looking backwards and holding a staff , which was to endure for the next three decades. This crest was based on elements in the coat of arms of the Metropolitan Borough of Chelsea  with the "lion rampant regardant" taken from the arms of then club president Viscount Chelsea and the staff from the Abbots of Westminster , former Lords of the Manor of Chelsea. It also featured three red roses, to represent England, and two footballs. This was the first club badge to appear on shirts, since the policy of putting the crest on the shirts was only adopted in the early 1960s.  , In 1986, with Ken Bates now owner of the club, Chelsea's crest was changed again as part of another attempt to modernise and to capitalise on new marketing opportunities.  The new badge featured a more naturalistic non-heraldic lion, in white and not blue, standing over the C.F.C. initials. It lasted for the next 19 years, with some modifications such as the use of different colours, including red from 1987 to 1995, and yellow from 1995 until 1999, before the white returned.  With the new ownership of Roman Abramovich , and the club's centenary approaching, combined with demands from fans for the popular 1950s badge to be restored, it was decided that the crest should be changed again in 2005. The new crest was officially adopted for the start of the 2005–06 season and marked a return to the older design, used from 1953 to 1986, featuring a blue heraldic lion holding a staff. For the centenary season this was accompanied by the words '100 YEARS' and 'CENTENARY 2005–2006' on the top and bottom of the crest respectively.  , Chelsea have always worn blue shirts, although they originally used the paler eton blue , which was taken from the racing colours of then club president, Earl Cadogan , and was worn with white shorts and dark blue or black socks.  The light blue shirts were replaced by a royal blue version in around 1912.  In the 1960s Chelsea manager Tommy Docherty changed the kit again, switching to blue shorts (which have remained ever since) and white socks, believing it made the club's colours more modern and distinctive, since no other major side used that combination; this kit was first worn during the 1964–65 season.  Since then Chelsea have always worn white socks with their home kit apart from a short spell from 1985 to 1992, when blue socks were reintroduced. , Chelsea's traditional away colours are all yellow or all white with blue trim, but, as with most teams, they have had some more unusual ones. The first away strip consisted of black and white stripes and for one game in the 1960s the team wore blue and black stripes, inspired by Inter Milan 's kit, again at Docherty's behest.  Other memorable away kits include a mint green strip in the 1980s, a red and white checked one in the early 90s  and a graphite and tangerine edition in the mid-1990s.   , Chelsea are one of the most widely supported football clubs in the world.   They have the fifth highest average all-time attendance in English football  and regularly attract over 40,000 fans to Stamford Bridge; they were the seventh best-supported Premier League team in the 2013–14 season, with an average gate of 41,572.  Chelsea's traditional fanbase comes from all over the Greater London area including working-class parts such as Hammersmith and Battersea , wealthier areas like Chelsea and Kensington , and from the home counties . There are also numerous official supporters clubs in the United Kingdom and all over the world.  Between 2007 and 2012 Chelsea were ranked fourth worldwide in annual replica kit sales, with an average of 910,000.  , At matches, Chelsea fans sing chants such as " Carefree " (to the tune of Lord of the Dance , whose lyrics were probably written by supporter Mick Greenaway   ), "Ten Men Went to Mow" , "We All Follow the Chelsea" (to the tune of " Land of Hope and Glory "), "Zigga Zagga" , and the celebratory "Celery" , with the latter often resulting in fans ritually throwing celery. The vegetable was banned inside Stamford Bridge after an incident involving Arsenal midfielder Cesc Fàbregas at the 2007 League Cup Final .  , During the 1970s and 1980s in particular, Chelsea supporters were associated with football hooliganism . The club's " football firm ", originally known as the Chelsea Shed Boys, and subsequently as the Chelsea Headhunters , were nationally notorious for football violence, alongside hooligan firms from other clubs such as West Ham United 's Inter City Firm and Millwall 's Bushwackers , before, during and after matches.  The increase of hooligan incidents in the 1980s led chairman Ken Bates to propose erecting an electric fence to deter them from invading the pitch, a proposal that the Greater London Council rejected.  , Since the 1990s there has been a marked decline in crowd trouble at matches, as a result of stricter policing, CCTV in grounds and the advent of all-seater stadia .  In 2007, the club launched the 'Back to the Shed' campaign to improve the atmosphere at home matches, with notable success. According to Home Office statistics, 126 Chelsea fans were arrested for football-related offences during the 2009–10 season, the third highest in the division, and 27 banning orders were issued, the fifth highest in the division.  , Chelsea do not have a traditional rivalry on the scale of the Merseyside derby or the north London derby . Matches against fellow West London sides Fulham and Queens Park Rangers have only taken place intermittently, due to the clubs often being in separate divisions. A 2004 survey by Planetfootball.com found that Chelsea fans consider their main rivalries to be with (in order): Arsenal , Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester United .  Their rivalry with Tottenham Hotspur is said to have developed following the 1967 FA Cup Final which was won 2–1 by Tottenham,  the first cup final held between two London clubs. Additionally, a strong rivalry with Leeds United dates back to several heated and controversial matches in the 1960s and 1970s, particularly the 1970 FA Cup Final .  More recently a rivalry with Liverpool has grown following repeated clashes in cup competitions.  , Chelsea's highest appearance-maker is ex-captain Ron Harris , who played in 795 competitive games for the club between 1961 and 1980.  The record for a Chelsea goalkeeper is held by Harris's contemporary, Peter Bonetti , who made 729 appearances (1959–79). With 103 caps (101 while at the club), Frank Lampard of England is Chelsea's most capped international player. , Frank Lampard is Chelsea's all-time top goalscorer, with 211 goals in 648 games (2001–2014);  he passed Bobby Tambling 's longstanding record of 202 in May 2013.  Seven other players have also scored over 100 goals for Chelsea: George Hilsdon (1906–12), George Mills (1929–39), Roy Bentley (1948–56), Jimmy Greaves (1957–61), Peter Osgood (1964–74 and 1978–79), Kerry Dixon (1983–92) and Didier Drogba (2004–12 and 2014–2015). Greaves holds the record for the most goals scored in one season (43 in 1960–61).  , Chelsea's biggest winning scoreline in a competitive match is 13–0, achieved against Jeunesse Hautcharage in the Cup Winners' Cup in 1971.  The club's biggest top-flight win was an 8–0 victory against Wigan Athletic in 2010, and matched in 2012 against Aston Villa.  Chelsea's biggest loss was an 8–1 reverse against Wolverhampton Wanderers in 1953.   Officially, Chelsea's highest home attendance is 82,905 for a First Division match against Arsenal on 12 October 1935. However, an estimated crowd of over 100,000 attended a friendly match against Soviet team Dynamo Moscow on 13 November 1945.   The modernisation of Stamford Bridge during the 1990s and the introduction of all-seater stands mean that neither record will be broken for the foreseeable future. The current legal capacity of Stamford Bridge is 41,837.  Every starting player in Chelsea’s 57 games of the 2013–14 season was a full international – a new club record.  , Chelsea hold the English record for the highest ever points total for a league season (95), the fewest goals conceded during a league season (15), the highest number of Premier League victories in a season (29), the highest number of clean sheets overall in a Premier League season (25) (all set during the 2004–05 season ),  and the most consecutive clean sheets from the start of a league season (6, set during the 2005–06 season ).  The club's 21–0 aggregate victory over Jeunesse Hautcharage in the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1971 remains a record in European competition.  Chelsea hold the record for the longest streak of unbeaten matches at home in the English top-flight, which lasted 86 matches from 20 March 2004 to 26 October 2008. They secured the record on 12 August 2007, beating the previous record of 63 matches unbeaten set by Liverpool between 1978 and 1980.   Chelsea's streak of eleven consecutive away league wins, set between 5 April 2008 and 6 December 2008, is also a record for the English top flight.  Their £50 million purchase of Fernando Torres in January 2011 was the record transfer fee paid by a British club  for 3 years (2011–2014) until Angel Di Maria was purchased by Manchester United FC on 26 August 2014 for transfer fee of £59.7 million.  , Chelsea, along with Arsenal, were the first club to play with shirt numbers, on 25 August 1928 in their match against Swansea Town .  They were the first English side to travel by aeroplane to a domestic away match, when they visited Newcastle United on 19 April 1957,  and the first First Division side to play a match on a Sunday, when they faced Stoke City on 27 January 1974. On 26 December 1999, Chelsea became the first British side to field an entirely foreign starting line-up (no British or Irish players) in a Premier League match against Southampton .  , In May 2007, Chelsea were the first team to win the FA Cup at the new Wembley Stadium , having also been the last to win it at the old Wembley.  They were the first English club to be ranked #1 under UEFA's five-year coefficient system in the 21st century.  They were the first team in Premier League history to score at least 100 goals in a single season, reaching the milestone on the final day of the 2009–10 season.  Chelsea are the only London club to win the UEFA Champions League , after beating Bayern Munich in the 2012 final .   Upon winning the 2012–13 UEFA Europa League , Chelsea became the first English club to win all four European trophies and the only club to hold the Champions League and the Europa League at the same time.  , Chelsea Football Club were founded by Gus Mears in 1905. After his death in 1912, his descendents continued to own the club until 1982, when Ken Bates bought the club from Mears' great-nephew Brian Mears for £1. Bates bought a controlling stake in the club and floated Chelsea on the AIM stock exchange in March 1996.  In July 2003, Roman Abramovich purchased just over 50% of Chelsea Village plc's share capital, including Bates' 29.5% stake, for £30 million and over the following weeks bought out most of the remaining 12,000 shareholders at 35 pence per share, completing a £140 million takeover. Other shareholders at the time of the takeover included the Matthew Harding estate (21%), BSkyB (9.9%) and various anonymous offshore trusts.  After passing the 90% share threshold, Abramovich took the club back into private hands, delisting it from the AIM on 22 August 2003. He also took on responsibility for the club's debt of £80 million, quickly paying most of it.  , Thereafter, Abramovich changed the ownership name to Chelsea FC plc, whose ultimate parent company is Fordstam Limited, which is controlled by him.  Chelsea are additionally funded by Abramovich via interest free soft loans channelled through his holding company Fordstam Limited. The loans stood at £709 million in December 2009, when they were all converted to equity by Abramovich, leaving the club themselves debt free,   although the debt remains with Fordstam.  Since 2008 the club have had no external debt.  , Chelsea did not turn a profit in the first nine years of Abramovich's ownership, and made record losses of £140m in June 2005.  In November 2012, Chelsea announced a profit of £1.4 million for the year ending 30 June 2012, the first time the club had made a profit under Abramovich's ownership.   This was followed by a loss in 2013 and then their highest ever profit of £18.4 million for the year to June 2014.  , Chelsea have been described as a global brand; a 2012 report by Brand Finance ranked Chelsea fifth among football brands and valued the club's brand value at US $398 million – an increase of 27% from the previous year, also valuing them at US $10 million more than the sixth best brand, London rivals Arsenal – and gave the brand a strength rating of AA (very strong).   In 2012, Forbes magazine ranked Chelsea seventh in their list of the ten most valuable football clubs in the world, valuing the club's brand at £473 million ($761 million).  Chelsea are currently ranked sixth in the Deloitte Football Money League  with an annual commercial revenue of £225.6 million.  , Chelsea's kit has been manufactured by Adidas since 2006, which is contracted to supply the club's kit from 2006 to 2018. The partnership was extended in October 2010 in a deal worth £160 million over eight years.  This deal was again extended in June 2013 in a deal worth £300 million over another ten years.   Previously, the kit was manufactured by Umbro (1968–81), Le Coq Sportif (1981–86), The Chelsea Collection (1986–87) and Umbro again (1987–2006). Chelsea's first shirt sponsor was Gulf Air , agreed during the 1983–84 season. The club were then sponsored by Grange Farms, Bai Lin Tea and Simod before a long-term deal was signed with Commodore International in 1989; Amiga , an off-shoot of Commodore, also appeared on the shirts. Chelsea were subsequently sponsored by Coors beer (1995–97), Autoglass (1997–2001) and Emirates Airline (2001–05). Chelsea's current shirt sponsor is Samsung who took over the sponsorship from their mobile division in 2008–09, and invest £18 million per year into the club.   In 2012, Gazprom became the club's official Global Energy Partner on a three-year sponsorship deal.  The club also has a variety of other sponsors and partners, which include Delta Air Lines ,  Sauber , Audi , Singha , EA Sports , Dolce & Gabbana  Barbados Tourism Authority, Atlas , AZIMUT Hotels , BNI , Vietinbank , Nitto Tire , Orico, Guangzhou R&F , Coca Cola , Grand Royal, Digicel , Lucozade Sport , and Viagogo .  , In February 2015, Chelsea agreed for the Yokohama Rubber Company to be their sponsor for the next five seasons, with the Japanese corporation paying £40 million per year. The deal is second in English football only to Chevrolet 's £50 million-per-year sponsorship of Manchester United.  , In 1930, Chelsea featured in one of the earliest football films, The Great Game .  One-time Chelsea centre forward, Jack Cock , who by then was playing for Millwall , was the star of the film and several scenes were shot at Stamford Bridge , including the pitch, the boardroom, and the dressing rooms . It included guest appearances by then-Chelsea players Andrew Wilson , George Mills , and Sam Millington .  Owing to the notoriety of the Chelsea Headhunters , a football firm associated with the club, Chelsea have also featured in films about football hooliganism , including 2004's The Football Factory .  Chelsea also appear in the Hindi film Jhoom Barabar Jhoom .  In April 2011, Montenegrin comedy series Nijesmo mi od juče made an episode in which Chelsea play against FK Sutjeska Nikšić for qualification of the UEFA Champions League .  , Up until the 1950s, the club had a long-running association with the music halls ; their underachievement often provided material for comedians such as George Robey .  It culminated in comedian Norman Long's release of a comic song in 1933, ironically titled "On the Day That Chelsea Went and Won the Cup", the lyrics of which describe a series of bizarre and improbable occurrences on the hypothetical day when Chelsea finally won a trophy.  In Alfred Hitchcock 's 1935 film The 39 Steps , Mr Memory claims that Chelsea last won the Cup in 63 BC, "in the presence of the Emperor Nero ."  , At the start of every home game, ' The Liquidator ' by the Harry J Allstars is heard before kick-off. Chelsea claim to be the first team to have used the song at a football match, in 1969. , The song " Blue is the Colour " was released as a single in the build-up to the 1972 League Cup Final , with all members of Chelsea's first team squad singing; it reached number five in the UK Singles Chart .  The song has since been adopted as an anthem by a number of other sports teams around the world, including the Vancouver Whitecaps (as "White is the Colour")  and the Saskatchewan Roughriders (as "Green is the Colour").  In the build-up to the 1997 FA Cup Final , the song "Blue Day", performed by Suggs and members of the Chelsea squad, reached number 22 in the UK charts.  Bryan Adams , a fan of Chelsea,  dedicated the song "We're Gonna Win" from the album 18 Til I Die to the club.  , Chelsea also operate a women's football team, Chelsea Ladies . They have been affiliated to the men's team since 2004,  and are part of the club's Community Development programme. They play their home games at Wheatsheaf Park, the home ground of Conference South club Staines Town .  The club won the Surrey County Cup in 2003, 2004, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2012, and 2013  and were promoted to the Premier Division for the first time in 2005 as Southern Division champions. In 2010 Chelsea Ladies were one of the eight founder members of the FA Women's Super League .  They were FA Women's Cup runners-up in 2012 and in the 2014 season, they were WSL runners-up, their highest ever league finish. John Terry , the current captain of the Chelsea men's team, is President of Chelsea Ladies.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , For recent transfers, see 2014–15 Chelsea F.C. season . , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. ,  , The following managers won at least one trophy when in charge of Chelsea: , Source: Chelsea F.C. ,  , Chelsea Ltd. , Chelsea F.C. plc , Executive Board , Chelsea Football Club Board: ,  Feyenoord Rotterdam ( Dutch pronunciation: [ˈfɛi̯əˌnoːrt] ) is a Dutch professional football club, from the Feijenoord district of Rotterdam , playing in the Eredivisie . Founded as Wilhelmina in 1908, the club changed its name to SC Feijenoord in 1912, SC Feyenoord in 1974,  and Feyenoord Rotterdam in 1978, when SC Feyenoord became a separate amateur team. Since 1937, Feyenoord's home ground has been Stadion Feijenoord, nicknamed De Kuip . , Feyenoord is one of the most successful clubs in the Netherlands, winning 14 Eredivisie titles, 11 KNVB Cups and two Johan Cruijff Shields . The club also has won one European Cup , two UEFA Cups and one Intercontinental Cup . The club is historically one of the three clubs that have dominated the Eredivisie (first tier) of Dutch football, the others being Ajax and PSV . These three clubs have always played in the Eredivisie, since its inception in 1952, and have never been relegated to lower divisions. , Feyenoord is known as a people's club, with a huge national support. The club's most successful period in history was the 1960s and '70s when Coen Moulijn and Ove Kindvall led the club to six league titles, two European trophies, an Intercontinental cup and thereby becoming the first Dutch club to win the European Cup and the Intercontinental Cup. , Feyenoord has a longstanding rivalry with Ajax, as a clash between the two biggest cities in The Netherlands, which is called De Klassieker (The Classic). The club's anthem is "Hand in Hand". , , , The football club Wilhelmina was founded in the pub De Vereeniging on 19 July 1908  and played in blue-sleeved red shirts and white shorts.  Between 1908, 1910, 1911 and 1912, the club underwent a series of changes of name and team colours, becoming Hillesluise Football Club in 1909  and then RVV Celeritas . Upon earning promotion to the National football association in 1912, the club renamed to become SC Feijenoord, after the city district in which the team was founded  and again changed uniform, adopting the red and white shirts, black shorts and black socks they still wear today.  In 1917, Feijenoord were promoted to the highest level of Dutch football, 1e klasse (1st division) and moved to the ground Kromme Zandweg .  , Sixteen years after the formation of the club and a mere three years after they were promoted to the highest level of Dutch football Feijenoord earned their first honours by capturing the national league championship in 1924.  The team enjoyed a string of successes in the latter half of the decade, taking divisional titles in 1926, 1927, 1928 and 1929, and winning their second national championship in 1928.  , Feijenoord won their first Dutch Cup in 1930 by scoring the only goal in a derby final against Excelsior .  They continued to dominate their division with three consecutive titles, but were winless in subsequent championship finals. Five years after their first cup win, Feijenoord took the prize for a second time in 1935, by beating Helmond Sport .  , Feijenoord started to attract more fans to their stadium at Kromme Zandweg, and in 1933, they decided to build a new facility. The club moved to the Feijenoord Stadion (nicknamed "De Kuip" or "the Tub") in 1937, playing the first match there on 27 March against Beerschot .  During this period Feijenoord won three consecutive division titles from 1936 to 1938, with their third and fourth national championships coming in 1936 and 1938.  , During World War II , Feijenoord played their matches at Sparta Rotterdam 's Kasteel , as the Nazis had occupied De Kuip.  When Het Kasteel was unavailable due to clashes with Sparta fixtues, Feijenoord played at their former ground, the Kromme Zandweg.  , Feijenoord's again won a division title with a national championship in 1940, their fifth Dutch title. During the German occupation of the Netherlands, play continued in Dutch football leagues, though the 1945 championship was cancelled as the war came to its conclusion.  During this period, Feijenoord's only trophy was a divisional championship in 1943. After the war, Feijenoord did not perform as well as they had in previous decades, not seriously challenging in their division and so missing the national playoff rounds. , On 30 June 1954, the chairmen of the three biggest Rotterdam teams organised a meeting in Utrecht , which was attended by several chairmen of other clubs and a delegation of the KNVB to discuss the start of professional football in the Netherlands.  The professional era commenced with the first Eredivisie season in 1954/1955.  Feijenoord were one of the clubs participating in the inaugural Eredivisie and have never been relegated.  One of the most memorable matches in these first years of professional football was the clash between Feijenoord and the Volewijckers at 2 April 1956, which Feijenoord won 11–4 with nine goals by Henk Schouten . Feijenoord would grow an intense rivalry with AFC Ajax . Matches between the two clubs quickly were dubbed as 'de Klassieker' (The Classic). The first memorable Klassieker from a Feijenoord point of view took place at 11 November 1956, when Daan den Bleijker scored four times to give Feijenoord a 7–3 win over their arch rivals.  , Feijenoord claimed their first professional Eredivisie Championship and their sixth Dutch Championship in history in 1961.  On the road to the title Ajax were beaten 9–5 in De Kuip, four of Feijenoord's goals were scored by Henk Schouten.  The following season, they played their first European Cup match facing IFK Göteborg . The Swedes were beaten 0–3 in Gothenburg and 8–2 in Rotterdam.   Feijenoord were eliminated by Tottenham Hotspur in the following round.  In 1962 Feijenoord successfully defended their Dutch Championship title and reached the final of the Intertoto Cup 1961-62 .  Feijenoord faced arch-rivals Ajax in the final, which was won by the Amsterdam team 4–2.  , On 12 December 1962, Feyenoord played a decisive match versus Vasas SC in the second round of the European Cup 1962-63 . The first two legs, in Rotterdam and Budapest both ended in 1–0 home victories, and a replay on a neutral ground took place.  The match was played in Antwerp , Belgium and 30,000 Feijenoord fans travelled by bus to see their team play.  For the third time the final score was 1–0, with the only goal scored by Rinus Bennaars who was immediately nicknamed "The hero of Deurne" (the neighbourhood in Antwerp where the match was played).  The events in Antwerp resulted in an enduring friendly relationship between the fans of Feyenoord and Royal Antwerp FC .  , In 1963, hundreds of thousands of people stood ashore by the Nieuwe Maas and the Nieuwe Waterweg to wave two ships, de Groote Beer and the Waterman goodbye. The ships transported thousands of Feijenoord fans to Lisbon where the club faced Benfica on 8 May 1963 in the European Cup semi-finals.  The first leg, held in Rotterdam a month earlier, finished 0–0.  Feijenoord eventually lost the match against Benfica 3–1, but this turned out to be the start of the most successful period in the club's history.  Feijenoord won the double for the first time in their history in 1965, and managed to win another double a few years later in 1969.  The 1965 title secured Feijenoord a spot in the 1965–66 European Cup , where they faced multiple cup champions Real Madrid on 8 September 1965 in the preliminaries. During the match, Hans Kraay had to leave the pitch injured after 31 minutes, without being substituted. He returned at the start of the second half and scored the goal which resulted in a 2–1 win. Later during the match, fans' favourite Coen Moulijn was attacked roughly by a Spanish defender. Moulijn then chased the defender all over the pitch. Several other players did the same, as did some fans who entered the pitch. The referee could do nothing, but suspend the match at 2–1 in Feijenoord's favour. Two weeks later, Real Madrid comfortably beat Feyenoord 5–0, and eventually won the European Cup that season.  , As the 1969 Dutch champions, Feijenoord participated in the 1969–70 European Cup . After thrashing Knattspyrnufélag Reykjavíkur 16–2 on aggregate in the first round, the club faced Milan .  Feijenoord lost the first leg 1–0 in Italy, but overcame the deficit in their own stadium following a 2–0 win, securing a place in the quarter-finals, where they faced ASK Vorwärts Berlin .  , The tie followed the same pattern as the previous round, Feijenoord losing the first match 1–0 away, then winning 2–0 at home.  In the semi-finals, Legia Warszawa were beaten 2–0 on aggregate, earning Feijenoord their first European final.  Ajax had reached the same final in 1969, but were not able to win.  Feijenoord faced Celtic in the final, held in the San Siro stadium in Milan . Goals by Tommy Gemmell and Rinus Israël resulted in a 1–1 draw after 90 minutes. Three minutes before the end of extra time, Ove Kindvall scored Feijenoord's winning goal to make them the first Dutch team to claim a major European trophy.  , As reigning European champions, Feijenoord faced Estudiantes La Plata in the Intercontinental Cup .  The first match in Buenos Aires ' La Bombonera finished in a 2–2 draw. Back in Rotterdam, Feijenoord managed a 1–0 victory (winning goal by Joop van Daele ) to win the world club crown, the first Dutch team to do so.  Estudiantes player Oscar Malbernat got frustrated and grabbed Van Daele's glasses and trampled on them. "You are not allowed to play with glasses... at least not in South America" was his excuse.  As the cup holders, Feijenoord participated in the 1970–71 European Cup despite relinquishing the Dutch title, which was won by Ajax. Feijenoord were eliminated in the first round, following a surprise defeat by the Romanian team UT Arad .  In 1971, Feijenoord won their 10th Dutch Championship.  , In 1974, the club changed their name from Feijenoord to Feyenoord , as people from outside the Netherlands did not know how to pronounce Dutch ij .  Under their new name, they played in the 1973-74 UEFA Cup, reaching the final, following a 4–3 aggregate win over VfB Stuttgart in the semi finals.  The opponent in the final was Tottenham Hotspur. Spurs took a 2–1 lead in the first leg at White Hart Lane , but Theo de Jong equalised after 85 minutes and the match ended in a 2–2 draw.  Feyenoord then won their match in Rotterdam 2–0, thanks to goals by Wim Rijsbergen and Peter Ressel , and also became the first Dutch team to win the UEFA Cup .  As a result, Spurs fans started to riot,  introducing Dutch football to the spectre of hooliganism in the process. The remainder of the decade saw Feyenoord win only one more honour: the Dutch Championship in 1974.  In 1978, the club divided their professional and amateur sides to form two separate teams, Feyenoord Rotterdam for professionals and SC Feyenoord for amateurs.  , Feyenoord won their fifth Dutch Cup in 1980 by beating Ajax 3–1 in the final.  In 1984, Feyenoord had another bright season, winning the double for the third time in their history.  Key players in the squad from this period included Johan Cruyff , Ruud Gullit and Peter Houtman (who later became the Feyenoord stadium announcer).  Cruyff reacted to Ajax's decision not to offer him a new contract at the start of the season and signed for arch rivals Feyenoord instead.  Cruyff's move to Rotterdam was criticised and increased Ajax's motivation to beat Feyenoord. In the Olympic Stadium of Amsterdam Feyenoord suffered one of their most heavy defeats ever: 8–2.  However, Feyenoord later defeated Ajax in Rotterdam 4–1 and Ajax were subsequently beaten a second time in the Dutch Cup.  Feyenoord proceeded to win a league and cup double by beating Fortuna Sittard in the cup final.  , After the successful season, Feyenoord experienced a lean period and were unable to finish the season in a higher position than third.  In the 1989–90 season, the club struggled to remain in the Eredivisie, but eventually managed to avoid relegation.  The club had financial problems, and as a result, the staff was not able to recover and their main sponsor, HCS went bankrupt.  , When Wim Jansen was appointed as the interim manager to replace Günder Bengtsson and Pim Verbeek after a 6–0 defeat against PSV, the outlook began to improve for the club.  PSV, the strongest Dutch club of the period, were knocked out of the KNVB Cup by a Henk Fräser goal in Eindhoven . Feyenoord progressed to the 1991 final, where they beat BVV Den Bosch 1–0 to win the competition.  As the cup holders, they faced champions PSV again, this time in the 1991 Dutch Supercup , the first Supercup held since 1949. PSV were beaten 1–0 by a Marian Damaschin goal to add another honour to the club's achievements.  They went on to win another Dutch Cup in 1992, beating Roda JC 3–0 in the final.  The same year, Feyenoord reached the semi-finals in the 1991–92 European Cup Winners' Cup , beating Tottenham Hotspur in the quarter-finals, before being knocked out by AS Monaco on away goals, after two draws.  , In 1993, Feyenoord secured another Dutch Championship by beating FC Groningen 5–0 in the last league match of the season.  The match was played at the Oosterpark Stadion in Groningen , so 40.000 Feyenoord fans watched the game on giant screens in De Kuip.  The title was followed by another two Dutch Cups in 1994 (beating NEC Nijmegen 2–1) and 1995 (beating FC Volendam 2–1).  During the 1994–95 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , Feyenoord reached the quarter finals after beating Werder Bremen in the second round. They eventually lost to Real Zaragoza .  In the quarter-finals in the 1995 KNVB Cup , Feyenoord visited Ajax, the team that would win the 1994–95 UEFA Champions League later that season. Ajax was leading 1–0 when Ruud Heus equalised with a penalty just before time. In the extra time, Feyenoord became the only team to beat Ajax the season they won the Eredivisie and the Champions League unbeaten. The goal scored by Mike Obiku was the decider as the new golden goal rule became in use.   During the 1995–96 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , Everton and Borussia Mönchengladbach were beaten. A total of 14,000 Feyenoord fans travelled to Germany to support the team against Mönchengladbach.   Feyenoord were knocked out in the semi-finals by a Carsten Jancker inspired Rapid Wien .   , Feyenoord made their UEFA Champions League debut during the 1997–98 UEFA Champions League , finishing third in their group behind Manchester United and Juventus . However, Juventus were beaten 2–0 in Rotterdam, both goals scored by Julio Ricardo Cruz .  In 1998, the FIOD-ECD (Fiscal Information and Investigation Service/Economic Investigation Service) visited Feyenoord because of suspected fraud,  mainly based on the signings of Aurelio Vidmar , Christian Gyan and Patrick Allotey .  This became an ongoing scandal in the years to come with chairman Jorien van den Herik as the main suspect.  On 25 April 1999, Feyenoord secured their 14th Dutch Championship. 250,000 fans celebrated with the team in the center of Rotterdam. However, later in the evening, heavy rioting started.  Before the start of the new 1999–2000 season, Ajax were beaten in their own stadium when Feyenoord won their second Dutch Super Cup title, after a free kick by Patrick Paauwe , which secured a 3–2 win.  , During the 1999–2000 UEFA Champions League , Feyenoord participated in the UEFA Champions League for the second time. This time, the club managed to finish second in their group behind Rosenborg BK , but in front of Borussia Dortmund .  Feyenoord reached the second group stage and secured wins versus Olympique Marseille (at home) and Lazio (away). Chelsea won both clashes and as a result, Feyenoord had to win their last group match away to Marseille to reach the knock-out stages. The final result was 0–0, and Feyenoord were eliminated.  , Feyenoord again participated in the Champions League in 2001–02 , finishing third in a group containing Bayern Munich , Sparta Prague and Spartak Moscow .  This meant Feyenoord had to continue their European season in the 2001–02 UEFA Cup instead of the second Champions League group stage.  The disappointment of failing to reach the second group stage eventually resulted in optimism and celebration. By winning over SC Freiburg and Rangers , Feyenoord faced fellow Dutch team PSV in the quarter-finals.  Both matches ended in 1–1 draws, and the clash went into extra time and a penalty shoot-out.  Pierre van Hooijdonk , who had a superb season by scoring many goals from free kicks secured Feyenoord's win by scoring in the 90th minute equalizer before finishing PSV off by scoring the last goal in the penalty shoot-out.  A 1–0 win in Milan against Internazionale , and a 2–2 return match in Rotterdam, earned Feyenoord their spot in the final, in which Borussia Dortmund was the opponent.  The final was held in De Kuip and as a result, most spectators inside the stadium were Feyenoord fans. Feyenoord took a 2–0 lead, thanks to another free kick and a penalty by Pierre van Hooijdonk.  Early in the second half Marcio Amoroso scored a goal to make it 2–1. Jon Dahl Tomasson then made it 3–1 and things looked good for Feyenoord.  Dortmund only managed to score one more goal and the cup was won by Bert van Marwijk 's Feyenoord.  , A huge party erupted in and outside De Kuip not only because of the title, but also because the final was held several days after Rotterdam's political figure Pim Fortuyn was murdered.  Lots of fans were still full of emotion, before and after the match. As a result of Fortuyn's murder, the cup was not officially celebrated in the city center.  , The 2002 UEFA Cup win was the start of a long dry spell for Feyenoord. In the 2002–03 season, the club managed to finish third in the national league, as well as reach the final of the Dutch Cup (which was lost 1–4 to FC Utrecht ), but in the following years, Feyenoord disappointed in both the national league and the Dutch Cup. , In between, Feyenoord and chairman Jorien van den Herik were found to be not guilty in 2002. The prosecutor however appealed, but in 2005, after three years of investigations, the results stayed the same. Still, the prosecution has not given up the case yet.  , The 2005–06 season ended in disappointment for Feyenoord. The team pursued the Dutch Championship for most of the season, but eventually lost out to PSV.  The newly created Dutch play-offs then proved to be gloomy for Feyenoord. Ajax, which finished several points behind in the regular league, were Feyenoord's opponent in the play-offs. Ajax ouclassed them and Feyenoord lost out on a Champions League place.  , In the 2006–07 season, the nightmare grew even bigger. The supporters saw their two star players leave to Chelsea ( Salomon Kalou ) and Liverpool ( Dirk Kuyt ). At the same time, it became clear that Feyenoord were in an appalling financial state despite earlier comments made by chairman Van den Herik who claimed that the club was financially healthy. Supporters' unrest grew into anger, when Feyenoord bought Charisteas , a back-up striker of arch-rivals Ajax, with a poor track record, as a replacement for Kuyt. After continuous protests, chairman Van den Herik resigned, and the club started managerial reforms. The worst was not over though. Feyenoord were banned from European competition, following hooliganism prior to and during a match with AS Nancy ,  despite an appeal by the club.  The season ended in bitter disappointment with a seventh-place finish, causing Feyenoord to miss European football for the first time in 16 years. While desperate supporters started preparing for a dark age, the club surprised friend and foe in the 2007 summer transfer window. A brilliant performance of young left back Royston Drenthe at the 2007 UEFA European Under-21 Football Championship had investors flocking to the new investment schemes Feyenoord had set up. The club appointed former manager Bert van Marwijk and was able to make a number of high-profile signings amongst which Giovanni van Bronckhorst and Roy Makaay . Despite the efforts, Feyenoord underperformed once again in the national league, finishing in a disappointing sixth place. The pain was relieved by claiming the first prize in six years: 100 years after the foundation of the club, Feyenoord managed to win the Dutch Cup, beating Roda JC by 2–0. As Bert van Marwijk accepted a job as manager of the national team, Feyenoord appointed Gertjan Verbeek as their manager for the 2008–09 season. , In the 2008–09 season, Feyenoord officially celebrated their 100th birthday and organised many events throughout the year. The old "golden logo" returned as Feyenoord's official logo, which was presented at the 2007 new years brunch.  During the summer a historical tournament was held between Feyenoord and the three opponents they met in the European Cup finals, they played, Borussia Dortmund, Tottenham Hotspur and Celtic ( Feyenoord Jubilee Tournament ).  , Mid-way through the season manager Verbeek was sacked because of disappointing league results. His assistant, Leon Vlemmings, then took over the job as manager. The results in this period improved slightly, resulting in securing a spot in the playoffs for the final Dutch Europa League slot. , For the 2009–10 season, Feyenoord appointed former assistant manager and Feyenoord footballer Mario Been to take over from Leon Vlemmings. Been, after achieving minor European successes with NEC Nijmegen , was considered the ideal man for the job. Former manager Leo Beenhakker, at that time manager of the Polish national squad, took over the role as Technical Director. Partly because of this position, he was able to attract more investors to the club leading to some unexpected signings, such as Sekou Cissé , Dani Fernández and Stefan Babović . , On 24 October 2010, they lost to PSV with a 10-0 score. In mid-January 2011 Leo Beenhakker resigned after multiple clashes between him and the Feyenoord Directors.  His replacement was former Feyenoord player Martin van Geel , who at the time was working as Technical Director for fellow Eredivisie club Roda JC.  , In July 2011, a majority of players in the squad voted to oust Been as club manager. Thirteen out of eighteen players voted that they had lost all confidence in Been's ability to successfully manage the club.  Been's subsequent sacking became global news, if only because reports of Been's firing quickly became a trending topic on Twitter, leaving people around the world to wonder who exactly Mario Been was.  , After Louis van Gaal turned down an offer to manage Feyenoord, the club sought out legendary former Barcelona defender Ronald Koeman , who had played for Feyenoord during the late 1990s. With his eventual hiring as Feyenoord manager, Koeman became the first to ever serve as both player and head coach at all teams of the so-called " traditional big three " of Dutch football: ( AFC Ajax , PSV Eindhoven and Feyenoord itself) Moreover, he played and managed these teams in the same order.  , At the beginning of the 2011–12 season, Feyenoord lost valuable players Leroy Fer , Georginio Wijnaldum and André Bahia to FC Twente , PSV Eindhoven and Samsunspor respectively. In return, the club restocked with players such as Jordy Clasie , Miquel Nelom , Guyon Fernandez and Kaj Ramsteijn , who came mostly from their own youth academy. Two other players were loaned, John Guidetti from Manchester City and Otman Bakkal from PSV. Feyenoord started the season well and played the first game of the Eredivisie, against the other Rotterdam club in the league Excelsior. Feyenoord ended the season by placing second in the Eredivisie, resulting in the third qualifying round for Champions League football.  , On 16 December 2011, it was revealed that Feyenoord had been placed in the more favorable second category (Categorie 2). Meaning that Feyenoord were no longer in debt according to the KNVB . They have earned this by the transfer of significant players and a large capital injection made by the organisation VVF (Friends of Feyenoord, Vrienden Van Feyenoord). However to stay in the second category, Feyenoord needed to obtain the same amount of points earned rounding up to or higher than 65 points.  On 13 April 2012 Feyenoord was officially out of what has been described as the 'financial dangerzone' and was officially placed in the second category. According to chairman of the club Eric Gudde the placing in the more favourable category came earlier than anticipated, he also congratulated the fans and promised to maintain the same policy until Feyenoord was completely healthy again and will never fall back into the first category.   , Despite not having to ask the KNVB for permission to invest in new players anymore, Feyenoord kept continuing the policy for the 2012-13 season, only contracting players that were either out of contract or available for a low transfer fee. John Goossens ,  Ruud Vormer  and Daryl Janmaat  were out of contract and signed a deal with Feyenoord over one with their old clubs. Mitchell te Vrede  played for the affiliated football club Excelsior , as well as for the highest-ranked academy team Jong Feyenoord/Excelsior and was promoted to the main senior team. Harmeet Singh  and Lex Immers  are thus far the only two players who Feyenoord paid a transfer fee for. Singh, a Norwegian midfielder and one of two non-Eredivisie players joining Feyenoord, was purchased from Valerenga IF , while Immers came over from ADO Den Haag . The other non-Eredivisie player joining Feyenoord was Omar Elabdellaoui who was loaned from Manchester City.  , On 2 July 2012, Karim El Ahmadi completed his transfer from Feyenoord to Premier League club Aston Villa for an undisclosed fee believed to be in the region of €2,600,000. This made him Paul Lambert 's first signing as Aston Villa manager, and Aston Villa's second signing of the summer (following Australia international Brett Holman 's move from AZ ).  , On 15 July 2012, supporters of Aston Villa uploaded a picture on Twitter which showed Ron Vlaar , Feyenoord captain since season 2010/2011, visiting the Villa Park stadium in Birmingham. Which had Martin van Geel confirm to the media that Vlaar wanted to leave Feyenoord.   After the incident Villa did not contact Vlaar, to which coach Ronald Koeman set up a deadline for The Villans, which ended on 23 July 2012, however Villa was on a pre-season tour of the US and thus not able to respond. On 23 July 2012, Vlaar told the public that he would not leave Feyenoord after all, and said that he felt that he was kept dangling by Aston Villa.    Four days later however Vlaar told the public that he would eventually be joining Villa, as he had agreed personal terms and would sign for Villa subject to him passing a medical. On 1 August 2012, Vlaar officially joined Aston Villa, signing a three-year contract. Feyenoord supporters received the news generally mixed, with some congratulating and wishing the best of luck, others feeling betrayed by Vlaar for misleading them.  , Stefan de Vrij would be taking up the vacant spot for captain, considering his time and experiences with Feyenoord, making Jordy Clasie , who because of his good play and tenacity soon became one of the most popular players among the supporters, vice-captain.  , On 7 August, Feyenoord had lost the third qualifying round of the Champions League against Dynamo Kyiv in both legs, which would secure a spot in the play-offs. Feyenoord was demoted to the play-off round of the UEFA Europa League . Ronald Koeman has said that Feyenoord was the better side over the two legs but missed a scoring striker, referring to John Guidetti , the loaned player from Manchester City one season earlier.  , On 10 August 2012, Dutch-international and Málaga C.F. defender Joris Mathijsen confirmed signing a contract with Feyenoord for three years. Málaga had made clear to Mathijsen that he needed to find a new club to generate income for the financially suffering Málaga after Sheikh Al Thani left. Ronald Koeman has however kept de Vrij as captain, despite Mathijsen being more experienced on international and club level.  , After drawing the first leg of the UEFA Europa League qualifier at home with 2-2 Feyenoord lost the second leg with a 2-0 win for AC Sparta Praha which meant that for the 2012–2013 season, Feyenoord would not be playing European football.  Following these events Feyenoord loaned Parma F.C. and old AZ striker Graziano Pellè  and exchanged Jerson Cabral for FC Twente striker Wesley Verhoek , no fee was involved within this trade.  Feyenoord ends the season in third place after Ajax and PSV . Graziano Pelle surprises many people by scoring 27 goals in 29 matches, after which he signs a contract keeping him at Feyenoord until the summer of 2017. , In the 2013-2014 season, Feyenoord had the worst start in history, despite having maintained all of its important players. The first three games were all lost, against PEC Zwolle , FC Twente and Ajax respectively.  After that, Feyenoord recovers from its bad start, but its performances stay quite unstable throughout the season. The other top teams in the Eredivisie are very inconstant as well, which keeps Feyenoord in the race for the title. Eventually they end second, just 4 points behind Ajax .  In the Europa League Feyenoord loses in the third qualifying round against FC Kuban Krasnodar , making it Feyenoord's fifth consecutive season without European football.  , On February 1, Ronald Koeman announced he would quit coaching Feyenoord at the end of the season. On March 3, Fred Rutten is appointed the new manager for the 2014-2015 season.  , The 2014-2015 season follows after a turbulent summer, where Feyenoord loses four of its best players ( Daryl Janmaat to Newcastle United , Stefan de Vrij to Lazio Roma , Bruno Martins Indi to FC Porto , and Graziano Pelle to Southampton – Ronald Koeman 's new club). To replace them and some other departed players, Feyenoord signed Warner Hahn from FC Dordrecht , Luke Wilkshire from Dynamo Moscow Khalid Boulahrouz from Brøndby IF , Bilal Başaçıkoğlu from SC Heerenveen , Colin Kazim-Richards from Bursaspor , Jens Toornstra from FC Utrecht , Kenneth Vermeer from Ajax and Karim El Ahmadi from Aston Villa .  With all these new players, and a new coach, Feyenoord has a bit of a disappointing start of the season with only 5 points after 4 matches. , However, Feyenoord does succeed to place themselves for the Europa League for the first time in six years. After they lost to Besiktas on a 5-2 aggregate in the third qualifying round of the Champions League,  they defeated FC Zorya Luhansk in the final qualifying round of the Europa League on a 5-4 aggregate.  , Feyenoord won with 2-1 against Standard Liège in their first home match in Group G of the Europa League. It was the first victory for Feyenoord in the Europa League group stage in 8 years. Feyenoord also beat HNK Rijeka (2-0) and defending champion Sevilla FC (2-0) in their own stadium and that was enough for Feyenoord to reach the knock out rounds for the first time in 10 years. In the knock out rounds Feyenoord lost against AS Roma on a 3-2 aggregate. After the loss against AS Roma, Feyenoord didn't recover. Even though a spot for next season's Europa League qualification rounds was almost secure, they didn't win any of their last 5 games, ending in the fourth spot, behind AZ Alkmaar on the last day of the season. During the play-offs to gain a ticket for Europa League they got knocked out by Heerenveen, leaving them completely empty handed this season. , Feyenoord are located in the Feijenoord district of southern Rotterdam and is named after the district in which the club was founded.  More frequent appearances in international tournaments led the club to change its name in 1974, because foreign fans unfamiliar with the Dutch language did not know how to pronounce ij .  Beside Feyenoord, there are two other professional football clubs in Rotterdam: Sparta and Excelsior . Feyenoord is currently playing in the Eredivisie , while Sparta was relegated to the second tier after the 2009–10 season.  Two years later Excelsior also relegated from the Eredivisie in the season 2011–12 . , The club's Feijenoord Stadion , located in the IJsselmonde district of Rotterdam, is nicknamed De Kuip , Dutch for The Tub .  It was built in 1937 and is one of the major European stadiums.  It has 51,117 seats and has hosted a record of 10 finals of UEFA club competitions, including the 2002 UEFA Cup Final which was won by Feyenoord.  Former Feyenoord player Mike Obiku once said "Every time you enter the pitch, you're stepping into a lion's home."  Feyenoord does not own the stadium, it is an organisation on its own.  , In 1935, Feijenoord player Puck van Heel hit the first pole on their way into their new stadium. The stadium was opened on 27 March 1937 and Beerschot was beaten by 5 goals to 2, Leen Vente scored the first goal in De Kuip.  Already in the very beginning the stadium was sold out on several occasions and other events held at de Kuip also gained lots of attendance.  During the second World War the stadium was one of the few locations which was not bombed, however the Nazis occupied the stadium.  After the war De Kuip became popular location once again. In 1949 the attendance record was broken during the match to decide the Dutch championship between SVV Schiedam and SC Heerenveen ; 64,368 fans visited the match.  , Besides football, there were also boxing and motorcycle speedway races in De Kuip, which were also gaining popularity. In 1953, people had to hide inside the stadium during the North Sea flood of 1953 .  On 27 November 1957, Feyenoord played versus Bolton Wanderers during an evening match. It was the first time the floodlights were taken in use.  The players entered the pitch in the dark and the fans were asked to light their matchsticks when the floodlights were activated. Since that evening, that match at De Kuip has always been special among Feyenoord fans.  , In 1963, De Kuip hosted their first European final (Cup winners' Cup) between Tottenham Hotspur and Atlético Madrid . Nine more European finals would follow in the years after with Feyenoord's win over Borussia Dortmund in the 2002 UEFA Cup final being the 10th and latest.  The attendance record of 1949 was broken in 1968 when 65,427 fans visited the Feyenoord- FC Twente match.  , In December 2006, Feyenoord director Chris Woerts announced that Feyenoord were developing plans to build a new stadium which would have a capacity of roughly 90,000 seats. The stadium would most likely be placed on the Nieuwe Maas , the river that runs through Rotterdam, and should be completed by 2016.  In May 2008, Woerts announced further details: the club is aiming for a stadium with a capacity of around 100.000 seats.  If possible, a capacity of over 130.000 should be realized according to Woerts, which would earn the title of biggest stadium in Europe. The club emphasized its efforts to make it a true football stadium with seats close to the pitch. The stadium will get a retractable roof so that other events can be held as well. According to plans in those days, the stadium should be ready in 2016. Due to financial difficulties for all parties involved and the fact that The Netherlands did not get to organize the FIFA World Cup of 2018, the plans for a new stadium have been put on hold. A new stadium will probably be built in the future, but it will likely not have a capacity of more than 70.000. , In September 2012 Feyenoord confirmed that there will arise a new stadium in 2018. The stadium will be built by builder VolkerWessels , it will cost around 300 million euros (± £242 million). Another option was a plan made by a consortium of BAM , Eneco Energie and Siemens . But the plan was rejected by the Feyenoord and Stadion Feijenoord direction. The new stadium should be a 63.000 all-seater. Despite the new plans, much of the supporters prefer a renovation of De Kuip. One of those initiatives are 'Red de Kuip', which is Dutch for 'Save de Kuip'.  They made plans of building a 3rd tier on top of the current stadium, increasing the capacity to 68000. This plan would cost only 117 million euros (± £94 million). , Feyenoord's official hymn since 1961 is called "Hand in Hand" .  Its melody was written in the 19th century by German Wilhelm Speidel  ( de ) . In 1961, Jaap Valkhoff wrote the lyrics which became popular among Feyenoord supporters who adopted the song as their unofficial hymn.  Valkhoff wrote lyrics on the same melody for several other teams as well. Among them were Feyenoord's arch rivals Ajax.  Nowadays the song is heard wherever Feyenoord play their matches, but also fans of MVV and Club Brugge have their own version that they sing.  , When a goal is scored by Feyenoord in their home matches the song I Will Survive , covered by the Hermes House Band , but made famous by Gloria Gaynor in the 1970s is played.  , Feyenoord supporters are known to be creative and have a lot of various songs and chants in their equipment during matches. Among the most important Feyenoord songs are "Mijn Feyenoord" by Lee Towers ,  "Feyenoord, wat gaan we doen vandaag?"' by Cock van der Palm  ( nl )  and "De laatste trein naar Rotterdam" by Dorus .  During the 2001/02 season when Feyenoord won the UEFA Cup a parody was launched of the song "Put your hands up" by Black and White Brothers called "Put your hands up for Pi-Air" as a tribute to Pierre (Pi-Air) van Hooijdonk.  In the 1970s Coen Moulijn also had a song dedicated to him named "Coentje Coentje Coentje" .  , The supporters of Feyenoord are said to be one of the most loyal supporter groups in the world supporting the team during both good or bad times.   They are nicknamed Het Legioen , Dutch for The Legion and can be found everywhere in The Netherlands and far across the Dutch borders. Squad number 12 is never given to a player, but is reserved for Het Legioen instead. , Feyenoord is a popular club in the Netherlands with a large number of supporters.  The team's first training session of a season alone attracts thousands of fans;  20,000 attended 2007–08 's inaugural session.  , In 1963, about 3000 fans boarded on two ships, among thousands of others by train or car and they travelled to Lisbon where Feyenoord faced Benfica in the European Cup .  When Feyenoord play abroad in European competition, about 8000 travel together to support their team.  Almost 15,000 fans were cheering for their team in 1996 when Feyenoord played in Germany versus Borussia Mönchengladbach .  About 40,000 fans visit a regular match at home while top classes versus Ajax, PSV and European Cup opponents are sold out most of the time.  About 250,000 fans showed up when Feyenoord's latest Dutch championship was celebrated in 1999 at the Coolsingel in the center of the city.  After Feyenoord beat Internazionale in the 2002 UEFA Cup semi final, Inter midfielder Clarence Seedorf said: "I really enjoyed the atmosphere in the Kuip. As an ex-Ajax player I was really given the bird, but that’s all part of the emotions in football. It also illustrates the intense way in which the Feyenoord supporters experience their club’s matches."  A number of the club's followers acknowledge a very close link with English side Sunderland, although it is an association that is often unwelcome and denied by the authorities. Over 100 Feyenoord supporters attended a function in Sunderland on the evening before their fixture with Newcastle in April 2015 and a similar number of Sunderland fans made the journey to watch the Dutch side in their ultimately delayed fixture against Vitesse Arnhem. , Beyond the Netherlands, Feyenoord opened a fanshop in the center of Tokyo , Japan when Japanese player Shinji Ono was a key player at the club, and also in South Korea when Song Chong-Gug played for Feyenoord.  , Feyenoord have one official fan supporters club, the Feyenoord Supportersvereniging.  Independent of the club, FSV has a membership of about 23,000, as of 2006.  The FSV act as a liaison between club and fans, produce match programmes, arrange travel to away games and organise supporters' evenings, as well as being involved in the other supporters organisations.  Children between 0 and 12 years old can join the Kameraadjes group (English: little comrades).  , In 1998 the Feyenoord Supporters Vereniging were wondering about whether or not it would be possible to create more atmosphere inside the stadium mainly during important matches. As a result, a few huge flags were produced and brought into the stadium prior to matches played by Feyenoord.  The flags were a success, but people started asking for more activities and a meeting between fans and officials were arranged. In 2000 Harry Veth was given permission to establish a group of five Feyenoord fans called TIFO team Feyenoord Rotterdam.  Besides creating more flags and small pieces of paper released from the second platform the team also started to organise bigger activities. The first big activity was held on 10 December 2000 when Feyenoord faced Ajax and 40 fog machines were activated when the players entered the pitch.  In the following years many different and various activities were held to improve the atmosphere inside the stadium. Feyenoord's TIFO team became famous abroad as well and the Italian TIFO foundation awarded Feyenoord the Best of TIFO Award 2000/01.  , Feyenoord's Jeugdproject (Youth Project) concentrate on children between 6 and 12 years of age, playing football at schools and amateur teams.  To show the kids the importance of sports and sportsmanship, Feyenoord invite the children to De Kuip to see what sport can do to people: happiness, disappointment, excitement, emotions, fear and cosines, it brings people together.  In Feyenoord's Youth Project visiting a match is the central point, but there is also an educative and cultural character included.  Feyenoord provide schools and amateur clubs with small teaching books and expect these to be filled in by the visiting youth when they enter the stadium on a match day.  The groups that support Feyenoord in the most original way and those who can predict the score correctly are awarded with prizes.  , A few weeks after the first training but still before the season really starts, the club open their doors for free for all Feyenoord fans to have fun together and to present the squad for the upcoming season.  De Kuip already opens in the morning when there are many activities around the stadium mainly for kids and promotional activities for companies which have a partnership with Feyenoord.  Fans can also take a stadium tour and walk on the pitch. The activities inside the stadium itself normally start around noon when there are several performances by various artists. Every year the new Feyenoord ambassador of the year is announced at opening day.  A minute of silence will be held for all former Feyenoord players who have died and for known fans who have died in the previous year.  Former Feyenoord players return to De Kuip every year to play versus a team of Dutch celebrities.  The stadium activities end after the squad for the upcoming season is presented to the fans. This is always a special happening, mainly for the new signings of the team. They will be flown into the stadium with helicopters when a full stadium is cheering for them when they arrive.  Once they are there the other players and club officials enter the pitch one by one. Last but not least, all players are available for autograph sessions afterwards.  Feyenoord's open day attracts about 60,000 to 70,000 fans towards Rotterdam, coming from all over The Netherlands, while there's only 51,117 seats available inside the stadium.  The opening day is known as a unique event in the Netherlands. , Notable supporters of Feyenoord include Craig Bellamy ,  Gerard Cox ,  Frans Timmermans , Mark Rutte , Wouter Bos ,  Jan Marijnissen ,  Robert Eenhoorn ,  Arjan Erkel ,  Dennis van der Geest ,  DJ Paul Elstak ,  Raemon Sluiter ,.  , Raemon Sluiter , Lee Towers , Dennis van der Geest , Robert Eenhoorn and Renate Verbaan have all officially been Feyenoord ambassadors. Gerard Meijer is the current ambassador, and was appointed 'ambassador for life' on 19 July 2008. , Ajax from Amsterdam are Feyenoord's arch rivals.  The two clubs share a long history together and matches between the two clubs are called the Klassieker (The Classic)  The rivalry is not only between the two teams, but also a confrontation between the two largest cities of the country, Amsterdam and Rotterdam, two cities with extreme differences in attitude and culture.  The meeting between the two teams is still considered to be the biggest game of the season.  In the past there have been many clashes between the supporters of both clubs, of which the Beverwijk clash in 1997 is the most infamous, with Ajax fan Carlo Picornie being killed and several others injured.  In 2004 Feyenoord player Jorge Acuña was taken to hospital with head, neck and rib injuries after Feyenoord players were attacked by Ajax hooligans during a match between the reserve teams of both clubs.  Another Feyenoord player, Robin van Persie , had to be rescued by Ajax coach John van 't Schip and player Daniël de Ridder .  Then in 2005 riots before and after the match happened in Rotterdam and were considered to belong to the worst in the history of Dutch football.  , Rotterdam is the city with the most professional teams in the Netherlands. Besides Feyenoord there are Sparta Rotterdam and Excelsior and the city is often referred to as "Voetbalstad nummer 1" (English: Football city number 1).   There is a rivalry between the teams, mostly between Feyenoord and Sparta as Excelsior can be seen as Feyenoord's feeder club, but it is not comparable to other local derbies . The rivalry between Sparta and Feyenoord is mostly seen on the Sparta side.  Some Sparta fans have refused to enter Feyenoord's De Kuip stadium, even when Sparta had reached the KNVB Cup final, which was played in De Kuip.  In the 1950s there was much more of a rivalry. One of the key factors for these feelings was footballer Tinus Bosselaar , who moved from Sparta to Feyenoord in 1954 before Sparta re-signed him, despite Feyenoord trying to prevent the deal in court.  , Feyenoord also have a fierce rivalry abroad against Tottenham Hotspur , who following several violent clashes with the club, coupled with a link to Ajax, are not popular with the Rotterdam club. [ citation needed ] , Below is a table with Feyenoord's domestic results, since the introduction of the Eredivisie in 1956. , Feyenoord have had managers from all over Europe. In the early years the club mainly had English managers, as football was already professional there. Feyenoord's first Dutch manager was Engel Geneugelijk ( ad interim ), while Richard Dombi is seen as the first successful coach. He led the team in three different periods. During the club's weakest period in history Feyenoord was managed by two managers at once, Dutchman Pim Verbeek and Swede Gunder Bengtsson . Bengtsson was the last foreign manager to lead Feyenoord. Feyenoord's international trophies were won by Ernst Happel , Wiel Coerver and Bert van Marwijk .  , Where Feyenoord's managers came from all over Europe the chairmen were mainly Dutch, with Amandus Lundqvist from Sweden as the only exception. With 28 years Cor Kieboom was the longest reigning chairman in the club's history.  , Since 2000 Feyenoord have had its own television programme, shown weekly on SBS6 .  The show features interviews with players and other team members as well as documentaries about the team.  As of the 2006–07 season Feyenoord launched its own Feyenoord TV project on their website with daily news and reports that tells everything about the club.  In 1993 Feyenoord introduced their own newspaper, the Feyenoord Krant , the only Dutch club to do so.  The newspaper is published fortnightly, with a print run of 25,000. Extra editions are published to coincide with European matches.  Inside the newspaper news, background information, interviews, reports and columns by Feyenoord related figures can be found.  Feyenoord were one of the latest Dutch teams to open their own official website on 21 May 2001.  The site is available in Dutch and English, plus other languages depending upon the nationalities of the club's high-profile players. As of 2007, Japanese and Korean editions are available due to the popularity of Shinji Ono and Song Chong-Gug in their home countries.  Since 2004 Feyenoord have shared a website 2 teams 1 goal with UNICEF as part of Feyenoord's children's welfare project in Ghana . To mark Feyenoord's centenary another site was launched in January 2007 to publicise events related to the occasion.  Feyenoord also opened official Live.com and YouTube pages in 2006.  Feyenoord also offer the option to follow the club with news and statistics on cell phones or email.  For each and every home match a daily program magazine is created and children who are members of the Kameraadjes also receive a magazine.  At the beginning of the season Feyenoord produce a new presentation magazine, while at the end of the season a Feyenoord yearbook is created.  , For recent transfers, see List of Dutch football transfers summer 2015 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , SC Feyenoord are Feyenoord's amateur and youth side, who have played at Varkenoord, directly behind De Kuip since 1949.  Sportclub Feyenoord's annual youth trials attract a large number of hopefuls, with thousands of boys attempting to impress the coaches.  , The Feyenoord squad typically contains a number of players who joined the club after playing for Sportclub Feyenoord, and several players from Sportclub Feyenoord have progressed to have successful careers at international level, including Puck van Heel , Wim Jansen and Giovanni van Bronckhorst .  A number of high-profile managers also started their coaching careers at Varkenoord, including Clemens Westerhof and Leo Beenhakker .  , As of 2007, Feyenoord currently have three formal partnerships, a satellite club arrangement with nearby Excelsior , a partnership with Hungary's Újpest FC and the Feyenoord Academy in Ghana. The most of strongest of these partnerships is that with Excelsior, who since 1996 have loaned young Feyenoord players on the verge of the first team.  The purpose of this is to allow them to experience regular first-team football, aiding their development while simultaneously strengthening Excelsior's squad. The highest profile players to have played at Excelsior as part of this arrangement are Thomas Buffel and Salomon Kalou , who were both subsequently involved in transfer deals worth several million Euros.   The partnership between Feyenoord and Excelsior was scaled back in 2006, though the clubs still work together.  , Feyenoord's co-operation with Újpest FC started when Hungarian ex-footballer and former Feyenoord player Jószef Kiprich joined the Hungarian team as an under 19 coach and started as a scout for Feyenoord.  , The Feyenoord Ghana academy in arose form a visit by Feyenoord chairman Jorien van den Herik to Abidjan to sign the then unknown Bonaventure Kalou , when Van den Herik contacted with the education institute at Kalou’s club.  The academy was built in Fetteh , just outside Accra . after go-ahead for and was given by the Chief of Fetteh in 1998. At the academy, young talented African footballers can work on their football skills. In addition to helping their football potential the students are provided with formal education which is funded by Feyenoord.  The Feyenoord Academy currently play their matches in the OneTouch Premier League . , The club have also entered into several other partnerships which are now discontinued, most extensively in Brazil with América Futebol Clube and J.J.'s football school in Rio de Janeiro . Other clubs who have previously entered partnerships with Feyenoord include Parramatta Power , Nagoya Grampus Eight , Boldklubben 1893 , Helsingborgs IF , Supersport United , KVC Westerlo , KV Mechelen , Breiðablik UBK , FC Lyn Oslo , UKS SMS Lodz , Omiya Ardija and Jiangsu Shuntian .   , The club also set ties with Indian Super League franchise Delhi Dynamos .  , As of the 1981–82 Eredivisie season the KNVB allowed the teams participating in the league to use sponsor names on their shirts in exchange for money.  At the time Feyenoord's shirts were produced by Adidas and the first main sponsor became the Dutch Yellow Pages called Gouden Gids.  In the second half of the 1982–83 season Adidas were replaced by Puma as the shirt supplier.  As a result, the Gouden Gids name was enlarged and was more visible on the shirts.  Gouden Gids sponsored the team until 1984, when Opel became the new sponsor.  The deal between Feyenoord and Opel lasted until 1989, but in 1987 Puma no longer produced the shirts, but Hummel International .  In 1989 Hummel produced the shirts sponsored by HCS . Adidas came back to the club in 1990, at the time that HCS got into big financial troubles and got bankrupt and was unable to sponsor Feyenoord any longer.  Where HCS left Adidas stayed and the new main sponsor became Stad Rotterdam Verzekeringen .  This turned out to be a longterm deal as they were Feyenoord's main sponsor until 2004, when it was overtaken by Fortis .  Since that time Fortis is the club's sponsor and the current contract was extended to 2009 with an option of three more seasons on 18 January 2007, the day before Feyenoord was excluded from the UEFA Cup 2006-07 .  Feyenoord's kits produced by Kappa , which replaced Adidas in 2000. Feyenoord's contract with Kappa ended after the 2008/09 season . After that season, Puma produces Feyenoord's kits.  When Fortis faced near bankruptcy, its assets were divided among several companies. The same insurance branch that sponsored Feyenoord before became ASR. To help with their brand recognition they decided to continue Fortis former sponsor obligations. In 2011 they announced that they would stop their sponsorship deal in the season 2012/2013. Due to economic recession Feyenoord had trouble finding a new shirt sponsor. Because of this Feyenoord and ASR reached a compromise. ASR would remain sponsor for one more season, giving Feyenoord the time it needs to find a suitable candidate. After negotiations with a few candidates, it became clear that Opel would become the new sponsor. The German car manufacturer signed a contract until 2018. , 2014   PEC Zwolle  Aston Villa Football Club ( / ˈ æ s t ən ˈ v ɪ l l ə / ; also known as Villa , The Villa , The Villans , The Lions )  are a professional football club based in Witton , Birmingham , who play in the Premier League , the highest level of English football. Founded in 1874, they have played at their current home ground, Villa Park , since 1897. Aston Villa were founder members of The Football League in 1888. They were also founder members of the Premier League in 1992, and have remained there ever since.  The club were floated by the previous owner and chairman Doug Ellis , but in 2006 full control was acquired by American businessman Randy Lerner . Lerner announced on 12 May 2014 that he is selling the club.  , Aston Villa are among the oldest and the most successful football clubs in the history of English football. Villa won the 1981–82 European Cup , and are thus one of five English clubs to win what is now the UEFA Champions League .  They have the fifth highest total of major honours won by an English club,  having won the First Division Championship seven times (most recently in the 1980–81 season), the FA Cup seven times (last won in 1957),  the Football League Cup five times (last won in 1996) and the UEFA Super Cup in 1982. The club have also produced a record 73 England national team players, equalled only by Tottenham Hotspur .  , They have a fierce local rivalry with Birmingham City . The Second City derby between Aston Villa and Birmingham City has been played since 1879.  The club's traditional kit colours are claret shirts with sky blue sleeves, white shorts and sky blue socks. Their traditional badge is of a rampant gold lion on a light blue background with the club's motto "Prepared" underneath; a modified version of this was adopted in 2007.  , , , Aston Villa Football Club were formed in March 1874, by members of the Villa Cross Wesleyan Chapel in Handsworth which is now part of Birmingham . The four founders of Aston Villa were Jack Hughes, Frederick Matthews, Walter Price and William Scattergood.  Aston Villa's first match was against the local Aston Brook St Mary's Rugby team. As a condition of the match, the Villa side had to agree to play the first half under rugby rules and the second half under football rules.  After moving to the Wellington Road ground in 1876, Villa soon established themselves as one of the best teams in the Midlands, winning their first honour, the Birmingham Senior Cup in 1880, under the captaincy of Scotsman George Ramsay .  , The club won their first FA Cup in 1887 with captain Archie Hunter becoming one of the game's first household names. Aston Villa were one of the dozen teams that competed in the inaugural Football League in 1888 with one of the club's directors, William McGregor being the league's founder. Aston Villa emerged as the most successful English club of the Victorian era, winning no fewer than five League titles and three FA Cups by the end of Queen Victoria 's reign.  In 1897, the year Villa won The Double , they moved into their present home, the Aston Lower Grounds.  Supporters coined the name "Villa Park"; no official declaration listed the ground as Villa Park .  , Aston Villa won their sixth FA Cup in 1920, soon after though the club began a slow decline that led to Villa, at the time one of the most famous and successful clubs in world football, being relegated in 1936 for the first time to the Second Division . This was largely the result of a dismal defensive record: they conceded 110 goals in 42 games, 7 of them coming from Arsenal's Ted Drake in an infamous 1–7 defeat at Villa Park.  Like all English clubs, Villa lost seven seasons to the Second World War, and that conflict brought several careers to a premature end.  The team was rebuilt under the guidance of former player Alex Massie for the remainder of the 1940s. Aston Villa's first trophy for 37 years came in the 1956–57 season when another former Villa player, Eric Houghton led the club to a then record seventh FA Cup Final win, defeating the 'Busby Babes' of Manchester United in the final.  The team struggled in the league though and were relegated two seasons later, due in large part to complacency. However, under the stewardship of manager Joe Mercer Villa returned to the top-flight in 1960 as Second Division Champions. The following season Aston Villa became the first team to win the Football League Cup .  , Mercer's forced retirement from the club in 1964 signalled a period of deep turmoil. The most successful club in England was struggling to keep pace with changes in the modern game, with Villa being relegated for the third time, under manager Dick Taylor in 1967. The following season the fans called for the board to resign as Villa finished 16th in the Second Division. With mounting debts and Villa lying at the bottom of Division Two, the board sacked Cummings (the manager brought in to replace Taylor), and within weeks the entire board resigned under overwhelming pressure from fans.  After much speculation, control of the club was bought by London financier Pat Matthews, who also brought in Doug Ellis as chairman.  However, new ownership could not prevent Villa being relegated to the Third Division for the first time at the end of the 1969–70 season. However, Villa gradually began to recover under the management of former club captain Vic Crowe . In the 1971–72 season they returned to the Second Division as Champions with a record 70 points.  In 1974, Ron Saunders was appointed manager. His brand of no-nonsense man-management proved effective, with the club winning the League Cup the following season and, at the end of season 1974–75, he had taken them back into the First Division and into Europe.  , Villa were back among the elite as Saunders continued to mould a winning team. This culminated in a seventh top-flight league title in 1980–81 . To the surprise of commentators and fans, Saunders quit halfway through the 1981–82 season, after falling out with the chairman, with Villa in the quarter final of the European Cup. He was replaced by his softly-spoken assistant manager Tony Barton who guided the club to a 1–0 victory over Bayern Munich in the European Cup final in Rotterdam courtesy of a Peter Withe goal. The following season Villa were crowned European Super Cup winners, beating Barcelona in the final. This marked a pinnacle though and Villa's fortunes declined sharply for most of the 1980s, culminating in relegation in 1987.  This was followed by promotion the following year under Graham Taylor and a runners-up position in the First Division in the 1989–90 season.  , Villa were one of the founding members of the Premier League in 1992, and finished runners-up to Manchester United in the inaugural season. For the rest of the Nineties however Villa went through three different managers and their league positions were inconsistent, although they did win two League Cups and regularly achieved UEFA Cup qualification. Villa reached the FA Cup final in 2000 but lost 1–0 to Chelsea in the last game to be played at the old Wembley Stadium .   Again Villa's league position continued to fluctuate under several different managers and things came to a head in the summer of 2006 when David O'Leary left in acrimony.  After 23 years as chairman and single biggest shareholder (approximately 38%), Doug Ellis finally decided to sell his stake in Aston Villa due to ill-health. After much speculation it was announced the club was to be bought by American businessman Randy Lerner , owner of NFL franchise the Cleveland Browns .  , The arrival of a new owner in Lerner and of manager Martin O'Neill marked the start of a new period of optimism at Villa Park and sweeping changes occurred throughout the club including a new badge, a new kit sponsor and team changes in the summer of 2007.   The first Cup final of the Lerner era came in 2010 when Villa were beaten 2–1 in the League Cup Final .  Villa made a second trip to Wembley in that season losing 3–0 to Chelsea in the FA Cup semifinal. Just five days before the opening day of the 2010–11 season , O'Neill resigned as manager with immediate effect.  Reserve team manager Kevin MacDonald took over as caretaker manager,  before the club appointed Gérard Houllier as permanent manager in September 2010.  Houllier stepped down on 1 June 2011 due to ill-health,  and was replaced by Birmingham City manager Alex McLeish , despite numerous protests from fans against his appointment. This was the first time that a manager had moved directly from Birmingham to Villa.  McLeish's contract was terminated at the end of the 2011–12 season after Villa finished in 16th place, only just above the relegation zone.  On 2 July 2012, Aston Villa confirmed the appointment of former Norwich City manager Paul Lambert as the replacement for McLeish.  On 28 February 2012, the club announced a financial loss of £53.9 million.  Lerner put the club up for sale on 12 May 2014, with an estimated value of £200 million.  With Lerner still on board, in the 2014–15 season Aston Villa scored just 12 goals in 25 league games, the lowest in Premier League history, and Lambert was sacked on 11 February 2015, with Scott Marshall and Andy Marshall being appointed as caretaker managers.  Tim Sherwood was shortly installed as manager.  , The club colours are a claret shirt with sky blue sleeves, white shorts with claret and blue trim, and sky blue socks with claret and white trim. They were the original wearers of the claret and blue. Villa's colours at the outset generally comprised plain shirts (white, grey or a shade of blue), with either white or black shorts. For a few years after that (1877–79) the team wore several different kits from all white, blue and black, red and blue to plain green. By 1880, black jerseys with a red lion embroidered on the chest were introduced by William McGregor. This remained the first choice strip for six years. On Monday, 8 November 1886, an entry in the club's official minute book states: , (ii) Proposed and seconded that Mr McGregor be requested to supply them at the lowest quotation. , The chocolate colour later became claret.  Nobody is quite sure why claret and blue became the club's adopted colours.  Several other English football teams adopted their colours; clubs that wear claret and blue include West Ham Utd and Burnley .   , A new badge was revealed in May 2007, for the 2007–08 season and beyond. The new badge includes a star to represent the European Cup win in 1982, and has a light blue background behind Villa's 'lion rampant'. The traditional motto "Prepared" remains in the badge, and the name Aston Villa has been shortened to AVFC, FC having been omitted from the previous badge. The lion is now unified as opposed to fragmented lions of the past. Randy Lerner petitioned fans to help with the design of the new badge.  , Aston Villa forwent commercial kit sponsorship for the 2008–09 season; instead advertising the charity Acorns Children's Hospice , the first deal of its kind in Premier league history.  The partnership continued until 2010 when a commercial sponsor replaced Acorns, with the hospice becoming the club's Official Charity Partner.  In 2014–15, the Acorns name returned to Aston Villa's home and away shirts, but only for children's shirts re-affirming the club's support for the children's charity. , Since 2013 Villa's shirt sponsors have been Dafabet . Previous commercial sponsors have been Davenports (1982–83), Mita (1983–93), Müller (1993–95), AST Computer (1995–98), LDV (1998–2000), NTL (2000–02), Rover (2002–04), DWS Investments(204-06), 32Red.com (2006–07), FxPro (2010–11), and Genting Casinos (2011–12). Since 2012, kit has been manufactured by Macron .  Previous manufacturers have been Umbro (1972–81, 1990–93), le Coq Sportif (1981–83)), Henson (1983–87), Hummel (1987–90, 2004–07), Asics (1993–95), Reebok (1995–2000), Diadora (2000–04)) and Nike (2007–12). , Aston Villa's current home venue is Villa Park, which is a UEFA 5-star rated stadium , having previously played at Aston Park (1874–1876) and Wellington Road (1876–1897). Villa Park is the largest football stadium in the English Midlands, and the eighth largest stadium in England. It has hosted 16 England internationals at senior level, the first in 1899, and the most recent in 2005. Thus, it was the first English ground to stage international football in three different centuries.  Villa Park is the most used stadium in FA Cup semi-final history, having hosted 55 semi-finals. The club have planning permission to extend the North Stand; this will involve the 'filling in' of the corners to either side of the North Stand. If completed, the capacity of Villa Park will be increased to approximately 51,000. , The current training ground is located at Bodymoor Heath near Kingsbury in north Warwickshire , the site for which was purchased by former chairman Doug Ellis in the early 1970s from a local farmer. Although Bodymoor Heath was state-of-the-art in the 1970s, by the late 1990s the facilities had started to look dated. In November 2005, Ellis and Aston Villa plc announced a state of the art GB£ 13 million redevelopment of Bodymoor in two phases. However, work on Bodymoor was suspended by Ellis due to financial problems, and was left in an unfinished state until new owner Randy Lerner made it one of his priorities to make the site one of the best in world football. The new training ground was officially unveiled on 6 May 2007, by then manager Martin O'Neill , then team captain Gareth Barry and 1982 European Cup winning team captain Dennis Mortimer , with the Aston Villa squad moving in for the 2007–08 season.  , It was announced on 6 August 2014, that Villa Park would appear in the FIFA video game from FIFA 15 onwards, with all other Premier League stadiums also fully licensed from this game onwards.  , The first shares in the club were issued towards the end of the 19th century as a result of legislation that was intended to codify the growing numbers of professional teams and players in the Association Football leagues. FA teams were required to distribute shares to investors as a way of facilitating trading among the teams without implicating the FA itself. This trading continued for much of the 20th century until Ellis started buying up many of the shares in the 1960s. He was chairman and substantial shareholder of "Aston Villa F.C." from 1968–1975 and the majority shareholder from 1982–2006. The club were floated on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) in 1996, and the share price fluctuated in the ten years after the flotation.  In 2006 it was announced that several consortia and individuals were considering bids for Aston Villa.  , On 14 August 2006, it was confirmed that Randy Lerner , then owner of the National Football League 's Cleveland Browns , had reached an agreement of £62.6 million with Aston Villa for a takeover of the club. A statement released on 25 August to the LSE announced that Lerner had secured 59.69% of Villa shares, making him the majority shareholder. He also appointed himself Chairman of the club.  In Ellis's last year in charge Villa lost £8.2m before tax, compared with a £3m profit the previous year, and income had fallen from £51.6m to £49m.  Lerner took full control on 18 September, as he had 89.69% of the shares. On 19 September 2006, Ellis and his board resigned to be replaced with a new board headed by Lerner.  Lerner installed Charles Krulak as a non-executive director and Ellis was awarded the honorary position of Chairman Emeritus. , Lerner put the club up for sale in May 2014, valuing it at an estimated £200 million.  , Aston Villa have a unique relationship with the Acorns Children's Hospice charity that is groundbreaking in English football.  In a first for the Premier League, Aston Villa donated the front of the shirt on their kit, usually reserved for high-paying sponsorships, to Acorns Hospice so that the charity would gain significant additional visibility and greater fund raising capabilities.  Outside of the shirt sponsorship the club have paid for hospice care for the charity as well as regularly providing player visits to hospice locations.   , In September 2010, Aston Villa launched an initiative at Villa Park called Villa Midlands Food (VMF) where the club will spend two years training students with Aston Villa Hospitality and Events in association with Birmingham City Council. The club will open a restaurant in the Trinity Road Stand staffed with 12 students recruited from within a ten-mile (16 km) radius of Villa Park with the majority of the food served in the restaurant sourced locally.  , Aston Villa have a large fanbase and draw support from all over the Midlands and beyond, with supporters' clubs all across the world. Former Villa chief executive Richard Fitzgerald has stated that the ethnicity of the supporters is currently 98% white. When Randy Lerner's regime took over at Villa Park, they aimed to improve their support from ethnic minorities. A number of organisations have been set up to support the local community including Aston Pride .  A Villa in the Community programme has also been set up to encourage support among young people in the region.  The new owners have also initiated several surveys aimed at gaining the opinions of Villa fans and to involve them in the decision making process. Meetings also occur every three months where supporters are invited by ballot and are invited to ask questions to the Board.  In 2011, the club supported a supporter-based initiative for an official anthem to boost the atmosphere at Villa Park. The song "The Bells Are Ringing" is to be played before games.  , Like many English football clubs Aston Villa have had several hooligan firms associated with them: Villa Youth , Steamers , Villa Hardcore and the C-Crew , the last mentioned being very active during the 1970s and 1980s. As can be seen across the whole of English football, the hooligan groups have now been marginalised.  In 2004, several Villa firms were involved in a fight with QPR fans outside Villa Park in which a steward died.  The main groupings of supporters can now be found in a number of domestic and international supporters' clubs. This includes the Official Aston Villa Supporters Club which also has many smaller regional and international sections.  There were several independent supporters clubs during the reign of Doug Ellis but most of these disbanded after his retirement.  The supporter group My Old Man Said formed to stand up for Villa supporter's rights, as a direct result of Villa supporters' protest against the club's appointment of Alex McLeish . The club's supporters also publish fanzines such as Heroes and Villains and The Holy Trinity . , Aston Villa's arch-rivals are Birmingham City, with games between the two clubs known as the Second City Derby .  Historically though, West Bromwich Albion have arguably been Villa's greatest rivals, a view highlighted in a fan survey, conducted in 2003.  The two teams contested three FA Cup finals in the late 19th century. Villa also enjoy less heated local rivalries with Wolverhampton Wanderers and Coventry City . Through the relegation of West Brom and Birmingham City, to the Football League Championship , in the 2005–06 season, at the start of 2006–07 Premiership season, Villa were the only Midlands club in that League. The nearest opposing team Villa faced during that season was Sheffield United , who played 62 miles (100 km) away in South Yorkshire.  For the 2010–11 season , West Bromwich Albion were promoted and joined Aston Villa, Wolverhampton Wanderers, and Birmingham City in the Premier League. This marked the first time that the "West Midlands' Big Four" clubs have been in the Premier League at the same time, and the first time together in the top flight since the 1983–84 season . However, Birmingham were once again relegated at the end of the 2010–11 season, meaning they would be playing Championship football the next season.  , Famous supporters , Footballers who support Aston Villa  , As of the end of the 2014–15 season [update] , Aston Villa have spent 104 seasons in the top tier of English football; the only club to have spent longer in the top flight are Everton , with 112 seasons,  making Aston Villa versus Everton the most-played fixture in English top-flight football. Aston Villa are one of an elite group of seven clubs that has played in every Premiership season, the other six being Arsenal , Chelsea , Everton , Liverpool , Manchester United and Tottenham Hotspur . They are fifth in the All-time FA Premier League table , and have the fifth highest total of major honours won by an English club with 21 wins.  , Aston Villa currently hold the record number of league goals scored by any team in the English top flight; 128 goals were scored in the 1930–31 season , one more than Arsenal who won the league that season for the very first time, with Villa runners-up.  Villa legend Archie Hunter became the first player to score in every round of the FA Cup in Villa's victorious 1887 campaign. Villa's longest unbeaten home run in the FA Cup spanned 13 years and 19 games, from 1888 to 1901.  , Aston Villa are one of five English teams to have won the European Cup . They did so on 26 May 1982 in Rotterdam , beating Bayern Munich 1–0 thanks to Peter Withe 's goal.  , Aston Villa have won European and domestic league honours. The club's last major honour was in 1996 when they won the League Cup . , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , There have been many players who can be called notable throughout Aston Villa's history. These can be classified and recorded in several forms. The Halls of Fame and PFA Players of the Year are noted below. As of 2014 [update] , Aston Villa held the record for providing most England internationals, with 72.  Aston Villa have had several players who were one-club men . In 1998, to celebrate the 100th season of League football, The Football League released a list entitled the Football League 100 Legends that consisted of "100 legendary football players." There were seven players included on the list who had formerly played for Villa: Danny Blanchflower , Trevor Ford , Archie Hunter , Sam Hardy , Paul McGrath , Peter Schmeichel and Clem Stephenson .  , Three Aston Villa players have won the PFA Players' Player of the Year award. At the end of every English football season, the members of the Professional Footballers' Association (PFA) vote on which of its members has played the best football in the previous year. In 1977 Andy Gray won the award. In 1990 it was awarded to David Platt , whilst Paul McGrath won it in 1993 . The PFA Young Player of the Year , which is awarded to players under the age of 23, has been awarded to four players from Aston Villa: Andy Gray in 1977 ; Gary Shaw in 1981 ; Ashley Young in 2009 and James Milner in 2010 . The National Football Museum in Preston, Lancashire administers the English Football Hall of Fame which currently contains two Villa teams, two Villa players and one manager. The 1890s team and 1982 team were inducted into the Hall of Fame in July 2009. Joe Mercer was inducted into the Hall of Fame at the same time for his career as a manager including his time at Aston Villa.  The only two Villa players in the Hall of Fame are Danny Blanchflower and Peter Schmeichel . , In 2006, Aston Villa announced the creation of an " Aston Villa Hall of Fame. " This was voted for by fans and the inaugural induction saw 12 former players, managers and directors named.  In May 2013 it was announced that former Villa and Bulgaria captain, Stiliyan Petrov , would be the 13th addition to the Hall of Fame.  , The following managers have all won at least one trophy when in charge or have been notable for Villa in the context of the League, for example Jozef Vengloš who holds a League record. , A number of television programmes have included references to Aston Villa over the past few decades. In the sitcom Porridge , the character Lennie Godber is a Villa supporter.  When filming began on Dad's Army , Villa fan Ian Lavender was allowed to choose Frank Pike 's scarf from an array in the BBC wardrobe; he chose a claret and blue one—Aston Villa's colours.  The character Nessa in the BBC sitcom Gavin & Stacey was revealed as an Aston Villa fan in an episode screened in December 2009.  In the BBC series " Yes Minister " / " Yes Prime Minister ", the Minister's local team was Aston Villa: Jim Hacker was the Member of Parliament for Birmingham East, and in the first episode ( Open Government (Yes Minister) ) he makes reference to the team in complaining that his new civil servants have given him too much work on his first day on the job: "Villa's at home to Liverpool!" In a later episode ( The Middle-Class Rip-Off ), the fictional Club Chairman, Harry Sutton, describes the teams' history when attempting to persuade the Minister to rescue the club from imminent bankruptcy: "Look at our history. FA Cup Winners, League Champions, one of the first teams ever into Europe." , Aston Villa have also featured on several occasions in prose. Stanley Woolley, a character in Derek Robinson 's Booker shortlisted novel Goshawk Squadron is an Aston Villa fan and names a pre-war starting eleven Villa side. Together with The Oval , Villa Park is referenced by the poet Philip Larkin in his poem about the First World War, MCMXIV.  Aston Villa are also mentioned in Harold Pinter's play The Dumb Waiter .  ,  The Philips Sport Vereniging ( Dutch pronunciation: [ˈfilɪps ˌspɔrt fəˌreːnəɣɪŋ] ,  English: Philips Sports Union), abbreviated as PSV and internationally known as PSV Eindhoven [ˌpeːjɛsˈfeː ˈɛi̯ntˌɦoːvə(n)]  is a sports club from Eindhoven , The Netherlands . It is best known for its professional football department, currently playing in the Eredivisie , and is one of the country's " big three " clubs who have dominated Dutch football (and who are the only three clubs that have never been relegated from the top division). , The club was founded in 1913 as a team for Philips employees. PSV’s history contains two golden eras revolving around the UEFA Cup victory in 1978 and the 1987–88 European Cup victory as part of the seasonal treble in 1988 . The team has won the Eredivisie 22 times, the KNVB Cup nine times and the Johan Cruijff Shield nine times. Currently, PSV is 28th on the UEFA club coefficients ranking.  Throughout the years, PSV established itself as a stepping stone for future world class players like Ruud Gullit , Ronald Koeman , Romário , Ronaldo , Jaap Stam , Ruud van Nistelrooy and Arjen Robben . , Since its foundation, it has played in the Philips Stadion and has upheld its club colours (red and white). Its elaborate connection with Philips can be witnessed in its sponsoring, shared technology and board member ties. Fans have named themselves 'boeren' ( Dutch pronunciation: [ˈbuːrə(n)] , Dutch for either peasants or farmers), taking pride in Eindhoven's status of being a provincial city and their Brabantian heritage. , , , To serve the need for activities with Philips employees, the company founded its own football team in 1910: the Philips Elftal. Its ground was the Philips Sportpark , located on the same location as the present day stadium. Financial turmoil and worker strikes led to a quick demise of the team and in 1913, its successor emerged: the Philips Sport Vereniging was founded on 31 August.  It was the day that Philips organized celebrations and sports competitions in light of the centennial defeat of the French in the Napoleonic Wars . It was not until 1916 though, that the football department switched its name from Philips Elftal to PSV.  Because of World War I , the first possibility to enter a league was in the 1915-16 season. The club's first ever match was a 3-2 defeat against Willem II Reserves on 19 September 1915. The team did achieve promotion that season to a newly created Third Division of the Brabantian FA. Under the guidance of coach Wout Buitenweg, PSV got promoted in 1918 and 1921 as well, eventually reaching the Eerste Klasse . The team got relegated in 1925 , but its stint in the Second Division only lasted one year when PSV got promoted again. Since 1926, PSV has always played in the highest possible domestic league.    , That year, defender Sjef van Run was brought in and a year later Jan van den Broek joined PSV; two players that would shape the squad in the coming years.  Behind the scenes, Frans Otten became chairman of the entire PSV sports union. He was responsible for bringing the club to a new level with new accommodations and stadium expansions. After winning the district league in 1929, PSV entered the championship play-offs . In that competition, it won 6 out of 8 matches. A 5-1 win against Velocitas from Groningen meant that PSV was crowned league champions for the first time.  In the following three years, PSV won the district league every year, but it could not win the play-offs until 1935. In that year , the team secured the second championship ever in a 2-1 victory against DWS .  , Due to World War II , attendances decreased significantly and in 1940, PSV player Johan Brusselers died in combat.  After the war, PSV signed two new strikers: Piet Fransen in 1948 and Coen Dillen in 1949.  In 1950, PSV got its first post-war success when the team defeated HFC Haarlem in the KNVB Cup final; the match ended in 4-3 after extra-time.  A year later, PSV won the district title after EVV failed to win their final match. Even though coach Sam Wadsworth resigned during the championship play-offs , the title was won after a 2-1 win over Willem II. The 1950-51 season was Dillen’s breakthrough, scoring 21 times and earning the nickname ‘The Canon’.  Besides Dillen and Fransen, a memorable player of the early 1950s success was goalkeeper Lieuwe Steiger , who ended up playing 383 matches for PSV.  , In 1955, PSV became the first Dutch club to enter the European Champion Clubs' Cup . The two matches against SK Rapid Wien ended in 1-6 and 1-0.  Other success in the fifties remained absent but in the 1956-57 season , Dillen scored 43 times – a Dutch record that still stands today.  The approaching sixties marked a shift in player’s heritage; the team went from mostly Brabantian men to players nationwide. Representative for this policy were defender Roel Wiersma , who arrived in 1954 and captained the team for a decade, and Piet van der Kuil , who came from Ajax for 59,000 euro (PSV's biggest transfer fee so far).   Dillen left the club in 1961 after being club top scorer every year from 1953 to 1960. In 1962, Otten also decided to quit as chairman of the sports union. By then, board member Ben van Gelder had gradually started to mold the club in his way. Throughout the next two decades, he became responsible for turning PSV into a full-fledged professional organization.  , In the 1962-63 season , marking PSV’s fifty-year anniversary, the club appointed Bram Appel as the new coach. The first results were disastrous though, with a mere six points from the first six fixtures. A sudden revival led to a first place at the winter break and a 5-2 victory over Ajax in June meant that PSV could celebrate its fourth league title, with Pierre Kerkhofs leading the goal scorer charts with twenty-two goals.   The following year, PSV ended second in the league but more significantly, reached the Europa Cup I quarter-finals for the first time, where it was eliminated by FC Zürich . Appel remained coach for five years; the position was later on followed up with short stints by Milan Nikolić and Wim Blokland.  Willy van der Kuijlen was signed in 1964, who produced 23 league goals in 1966 and became the league’s top scorer at age 20.   , Between 1968 and 1972, Kurt Linder coached PSV. His team reached two Dutch cup finals and the semi-finals of the European Cup Winners' Cup . Van der Kuijlen had trouble fulfilling his promise after an encouraging career start in the sixties, though - partly because of a lack of chemistry between him and Linder’s harsh coaching style. The early seventies in football were dominated by Ajax and Feyenoord and it was not until the appointment of Kees Rijvers as coach in 1972 that would mark the start of increasing success for PSV. With Van der Kuijlen and goalkeeper Jan van Beveren as the stars of the team, Rijvers created a new squad by signing Ralf Edström , Gerrie Deijkers and the twins Willy and René van der Kerkhof . Things improved for Van der Kuijlen when Rijvers built the team around him, giving him a free role in the process. Van der Kuijlen, a technical player, formed a successful striker partnership with Edström, who was famed for his heading ability. It led to a Dutch cup victory in 1974 , and after a blistering season start (no defeats in the first season half) and 28 goals by Van der Kuijlen, PSV also won the league for the fifth time in 1975 . , A year later, PSV managed to win its first ‘ double ’. With defender Huub Stevens joining the team, the league title was secured after a 4-1 result against Feyenoord. Earlier, a 1-0 victory over Roda JC meant that PSV won the national cup as well. In the European Cup , the final was only narrowly missed after a 1-0 aggregate loss against AS Saint-Étienne in the semi-finals.   After the two consecutive titles, PSV ended second in 1977. The following year, Edström left the squad but PSV nonetheless enjoyed a strong league campaign. In April 1978, the team secured the title without a single loss. The domestic cup ended early after a shocking 1-6 first round loss against FC Wageningen (PSV’s biggest home loss ever to date). The UEFA Cup campaign proved to be more successful; after wins against Glenavon , Widzew Lodz , Eintracht Braunschweig and 1. FC Magdeburg , the team faced FC Barcelona . A 3-0 win in the first leg was nullified by the Catalans in the return leg, but a single goal by Nick Deacy in Camp Nou meant that PSV could progress with a 4-3 aggregate win. The two-legged final against SC Bastia first produced a goalless draw in the first match. The return leg in Eindhoven ended in a 3-0 win, with goals by Willy van de Kerkhof, Deijkers and Van der Kuijlen, giving PSV its first European trophy.  , After the UEFA Cup victory, the team chemistry started to suffer, which was reflected in the results. Not long after a 6-0 UEFA Cup loss against Saint-Etienne, Rijvers was sacked and the squad disintegrated.  Van Beveren, unhappy with the declining success and Rijvers’ departure, left for the United States after 291 league games and years of captaincy.  Van Gelder also quit in 1980 and was replaced by Kees Ploegsma. Even though PSV invested in players like Hallvar Thoresen and Jurrie Koolhof , success remained absent. Thijs Libregts ' (coach from 1980 until 1983) highest league position was the second place and in 1983, Jan Reker took over. A clash between Van der Kuijlen and Libregts led to the former’s departure in 1982 after nearly 18 seasons at the club.   , In 1985, chairman Jacques Ruts and Ploegsma decided on a change of direction: Hans Kraay became the new director of football (supervising Reker in 1985-86, and taking over altogether in 1986-87) and PSV started to sign players with flair, like Ruud Gullit , Søren Lerby , Gerald Vanenburg and Eric Gerets . Gullit, who quickly was appointed as captain, contributed to the team that headed the league table for the majority of the 1985–86 Eredivisie and claimed the title after an 8-2 win against Go Ahead Eagles . Being unhappy with his personal development, Gullit heavily criticized PSV and Kraay in a March 1987 interview. The management’s subsequent warning was deemed too lenient by Kraay, who resigned. Gullit’s strained relationship with the club meant that he left for A.C. Milan in the summer for a world record fee of 7,7 million euro.  Earlier that year, Guus Hiddink replaced Kraay and Ronald Koeman joined PSV. That season , the squad suffered early eliminations from the Dutch cup and European Cup, but secured the title in the penultimate match.   , The 1987-88 season turned out to be PSV’s best year in history. The Eredivisie was won four matches before the end after many high scoring matches, leading up to 117 goals. The cup was also won after beating Roda JC 3-2 after extra time.  The European Cup campaign started with wins against Fenerbahçe and Rapid Wien. Subsequently, PSV managed to reach the final with only draws. The quarter finals against Bordeaux were decided by Wim Kieft ’s away goal. A vicious foul by Hans Gillhaus on Jean Tigana was praised by Koeman, which prompted UEFA to suspend him for the semi-final return leg against Real Madrid . Again, an away goal in the first leg (a notoriously lethargic shot by Edward Linskens in Bernabéu) meant that the second leg’s 0-0 was enough to proceed. The final against Benfica , held in Stuttgart , remained goalless. In the penalty shoot-out, Van Breukelen saved Benfica’s sixth penalty by António Veloso , which meant that PSV had won the European Cup and completed the treble .  , After the summer break, Willy van de Kerkhof, present at both the 1978 and 1988 triumphs, was honored with a farewell match.  The 1988-89 season again resulted in the double: Hiddink’s squad won the title (albeit with less dominance than the year before) and PSV beat Groningen in the cup final . In comparison, the international competitions were disappointing. The Intercontinental Cup against Nacional ended in a 2-2 draw , but PSV lost the penalty shoot-out with 7-6. The team was also beaten in the UEFA Super Cup by KV Mechelen ( 3-1 on aggregate ). In the European Cup, Real Madrid got its revenge by eliminating PSV in the quarter-finals.  , After the European Cup win, PSV outsmarted many clubs by signing Romário . After a first season with 19 league goals, his hat-trick in the November 1989 match against Steaua București (5-1) - including a memorable solo effort – was his big breakthrough.  In 1989, after Koeman left, PSV ended second in the league, but won the KNVB Cup after defeating Vitesse (1-0) .   Hiddink left the team in 1990, to be replaced by Bobby Robson . In his two seasons at the club, PSV won two league titles; the first one on goal difference (with Ajax) and the second one in the penultimate match against Groningen.  Meanwhile, Romário - league top scorer in 1989, 1990 and 1991 - was admired by fans, but sometimes also renounced by the squad for being unprofessional and selfish. Robson had frequent clashes with Romário, but the striker never changed his ways. These events, plus the lack of European success meant that Robson was let go in 1992.  While Gerets retired, Hans Westerhof took over as coach, but only won the Super Cup in his single season at the helm.   In 1993, Romário was transferred to FC Barcelona.  Westerhof was replaced by Aad de Mos , who led the team to the third place.  , Early in the 1994-95 season , De Mos was fired and replaced by Dick Advocaat (after Kees Rijvers temporarily took over).  PSV saw Van Breukelen retiring and signed Luc Nilis in 1994, who formed a powerful duo with another signing: a 17-year old Ronaldo . The Brazilian striker scored 30 goals in his debut season, while Nilis was named Dutch Footballer of the Year in an otherwise trophy-less year. After an injury-filled 1995-96 season where he still managed 12 goals, Ronaldo left for Barcelona.   That season, PSV won the cup after a 5-2 win against Sparta.  In the 1996-97 season, when Harry van Raaij became chairman, Advocaat had created a team with players like Phillip Cocu , Jaap Stam , Boudewijn Zenden and Wim Jonk . It led to the Eredivisie title, with Nilis becoming league top goalscorer (21 goals). In the 1997-98 season, the team came in second behind Ajax in both league and cup. It resulted in Cocu, Stam, Zenden, Jonk and Advocaat leaving PSV, forcing the club to build a new squad.   Robson temporarily returned in 1998 for one year so that desired coach Eric Gerets could get his coaching badges. Again, Nilis showed to be highly compatible with a poacher-type striker; new signing Ruud van Nistelrooy scored 31 times in his first season. In the season's last round, PSV beat FC Utrecht 3-2 with a last-minute goal by Arnold Bruggink – just enough for Champions League qualification.   , In the 1999-2000 season , Van Nistelrooy bagged 29 goals after just 23 matches, but after two serious injuries an imminent transfer to Manchester United was forced to be postponed for a year.  PSV were comfortably crowned league champions in Gerets’ debut year, creating a 16 point-gap with runner-up Heerenveen.  The 2000–01 Eredivisie was also won with new striker Mateja Kežman , who replaced Van Nistelrooy and the departed Nilis. The cup final was lost to FC Twente after penalties.  In the UEFA Cup, PSV faced 1. FC Kaiserslautern at home; fans threatening to storm the field during the match prompted Gerets and some players to personally intervene. PSV was fined by UEFA and forced to play a European match on neutral ground.  After Van Nistelrooy left, PSV ended second in the 2001-02 season and got eliminated in the UEFA Cup quarter-finals by Feyenoord.  , Gerets was released and Guus Hiddink returned to the club as coach and director of football, with Arjen Robben , Park Ji-Sung , Lee Young-Pyo joining PSV.   Their first season immediately brought a league title, secured in the last match against Groningen.  But in the 2003-04 season, PSV failed to reclaim the championship.  In 2004, the PSV board clashed with Hiddink and Van Raaij concerning the expenditures. Van Raaij left in September and Hiddink never got along with his successor Rob Westerhof, who sided with the board.  Even though Kežman and Robben left in 2004, Hiddink had gradually built a powerful squad, with Gomes , Alex , Park, Lee, Van Bommel and the returning Phillip Cocu. The Eredivisie was won five matches before the end and Willem II was beaten in the cup final. After eight consecutive Champions League group stage eliminations, PSV reached the knockout stage. There, they beat AS Monaco 2-1 on aggregate and Olympique Lyonnais after penalties. The first semi-final against AC Milan was lost 2-0. In the return, PSV took a 2-0 lead but a late goal by Massimo Ambrosini ended the hope to reach the final, despite an injury-time third goal by Cocu.   , After the 2004-05 season, Van Bommel, Vogel, Park and Lee left. With new signing Timmy Simons and youth prospect Ibrahim Afellay , PSV reached the Champions League knockout stage again. In that round, Olympique Lyonnais revenged PSV by winning 5-0 on aggregate. The team did win the league, but lost the cup final to Ajax.  Afterwards, Hiddink left and Ronald Koeman replaced him. Westerhof, who lost support from the board, resigned soon after Hiddink’s departure. Jan Reker became general manager.  During the 2006–07 season, league leaders PSV squandered a 12-point lead, enabling AZ and Ajax to equal their 72 points before the last round. A surprise AZ defeat in the last fixture meant that PSV’s 5-1 victory against Vitesse was enough to edge the title win; PSV had a single goal difference with Ajax.   Koeman was criticised by the board after losing a big lead, but was eventually allowed to remain as coach. In the 2007-08 season, after Cocu and Alex left, the team was disqualified from the KNVB Cup after fielding a suspended Manuel da Costa . In October, Koeman took up the coaching job at Valencia , prompting PSV to first appoint Jan Wouters and then Sef Vergoossen as caretakers. The fourth title in a row was won in the last match, again against Vitesse.  After the title, Gomes and director of football Stan Valckx voiced criticism towards Reker, forcing the club to choose between Reker and Gomes. Subsequently, Reker sacked Valckx and sold Gomes to Tottenham Hotspur .  , Huub Stevens returned as coach in 2008, but disappointing performances and clashes between Stevens and the squad resulted in his resignation six months later.  Caretaker Dwight Lodeweges wrapped up the season with a fourth place.  The following year, Fred Rutten was appointed as coach. In his first two seasons, PSV reached the third place twice. With Rutten as coach PSV beat Feyenoord 10-0 in a home game on October 24th 2010. A historical win and biggest defeat of Feyenoord in their club history. Meanwhile, the club experienced liquidity problems, but secured its future through loans and property sales.  Key players Afellay and Balázs Dzsudzsák were sold and as a consequence, director of football Marcel Brands spent 25 million euro to improve the squad.  But in the 2011-12 season , the team dropped out of the title race early again, which led to Rutten’s dismissal. Phillip Cocu finished the season as caretaker, leading the team to a third place and a KNVB Cup after beating Heracles Almelo .    For the 2012-13 season , Dick Advocaat became head coach, while Mark van Bommel returned from A.C. Milan . Despite 103 league goals, the team ended as runner-up in both Eredivisie and KNVB Cup. Advocaat, who struggled with the job’s intensity, left after one season.   In 2013, Cocu was appointed as head coach.  On 18th April, 2015, PSV won the Eredivisie after a 4-1 win over Heerenveen. This was their first league title since 2008 and it ended a four-year domination of the league by AFC Ajax  , PSV’s first crest consisted of a light bulb and the words ‘Philips Sport’ in a circular shape. Its next incarnation was a shield-shaped logo with red-and-white vertical lines, topped off with the letters ‘PSV’. The third design of the crest proved to be a durable one; its oval shape, red-and-white horizontal lines and a flag with the PSV letters incorporated remains used until today. Only minor changes have occurred: the border color and addition of horseshoe-shaped figures, a circle around the three letters and the addition of two stars to commemorate winning twenty league titles. Early incarnations of the oval version also included dots for the abbreviation ‘P.S.V.’. For the centennial celebrations in 2013, a laurel wreath and the number ‘100’ in gold were temporarily added to the crest.  , The colors red and white were chosen at the founding meeting in 1913 by Jan Willem Hofkes, the first chairman of the club. He apparently appreciated the contrast between his red raspberry drink and his white notepad.  Inspired by the club colors, the first kit consisted of a red-and-white vertically striped shirt, black shorts and red-and-white horizontally striped socks. This combination was worn until the seventies, when the club switched to a completely red shirt, which was worn with either white or black shorts. The red kit was changed back to a striped version in 1989. The red-and-white stripes have remained ever since, albeit in very varied adaptations. The shorts would also often change between black and white. During Ruud Gullit's tenure at PSV, he personally changed the shorts from black to white, in an attempt to improve the stature of the kit.  For the centennial celebrations in 2013, PSV have temporarily switched to an all-red jersey with white shorts and socks. Its design choices were meant to reminisce the kits worn during the 1987-88 season.   , Because of the close ties with Philips, PSV have had the same jersey sponsor without exception since 1982, the year jersey sponsorships were introduced in the Eredivisie. This is a record in Dutch football. PSV’s first clothing sponsor was Le Coq Sportif , from 1970 to 1974, when it switched to Adidas . They remained sponsor until 1995, when they were replaced by Nike – who are still sponsoring the club as of today. , PSV have played at the Philips Stadion since its foundation in 1913, when it was still named Philips Sportpark. The venue was built in the Strijp borough, and more specifically in the Philipsdorp area - a neighborhood set up in 1910 by Anton Philips in order to provide accommodation to employees. A football field was simultaneously laid out where PSV’s predecessor, the Philips Elftal, played its first match in on 15 January 1911 against Hollandia from Woensel .   In 1916, the first wooden stand was built, providing seating space for 550 viewers.  Another stand with 900 seats was built in the thirties. In 1941, a running track was added, but it was removed seventeen years later. During World War II, the stadium was damaged by the war; the reparations took place after the liberation of South Netherlands in 1944. , Four 40-meter high floodlights were installed in the stadium in 1958, making evening matches possible. The lights were inaugurated with an exhibition match against Anderlecht.  In 1977, the main stand was completely rebuilt, but an alkali–silica reaction ten years later caused the concrete to crack. Chairman Jacques Ruts, who was previously introduced to the skybox in the United States , considered a new stand to be an opportunity to attract more sponsors. The new main stand - two tiers, with skyboxes in the middle – was introduced in a friendly match against A.C. Milan in 1988. In the nineties, the other three stands are also elevated. The last major renovation was the closing of the four open corners of the stadium. Along with creating more seats, the new corners had window blind-type constructions, which allowed air to flow through in order to let the grass breath.  The completion was celebrated in October 2002, with the capacity increased to 35,000.  In the summer of 2005, the club removed the tall fences around the pitch, replacing them with lower railings keeping the spectators off the grass. Unauthorized persons who do invade the pitch will receive a €15,000 penalty and a ten-year-ban from visiting the ground. , The Philips Stadion has been awarded four out of five stars by the UEFA Stadium Rankings.  The ground hold several designated areas. The lower terraces on the East stand are considered the proper location for the fanatic viewers. There are also separate areas for youngsters up to sixteen years old, for the disabled, and for fans of the visiting team in the north-west upper corner. A stand named the ‘Family Corner’ specifically serves children up to twelve and their parents. For business representatives, the stadium has business rooms and suites, totaling 1186 seats.  Besides football-related activities, the stadium holds merchandising stores, offices and three restaurants, including the Michelin-star assigned Avant-Garde.  For the centennial celebrations, a PSV Museum will be revealed in the stadium.  Training sessions by PSV are conducted on De Herdgang, located in the outskirts of Eindhoven in woodland surroundings. With ten fields and fitness facilities, it also accommodates all PSV youth and amateur teams. Its last major renovation occurred in 2006.  , PSV have attracted around 33,000 people to Eredivisie matches on average in the last years. The record attendance stands at 35,200, achieved in a match against Feyenoord at 17 November 2002.  The club always reserves tickets for away fans and individual ticket purchases; the maximum number of season ticket holders therefore is 29,200. All season tickets were sold out in 2007 and 2008. More recently in 2013, PSV sold 28,000 season tickets.  Research showed that over 25,000 season ticket holders hail from Noord-Brabant, with other significant groups coming from Limburg , Gelderland , Zuid-Holland , Noord-Holland and Belgium .  , PSV currently has two independent fan bodies. The ‘Supportersvereniging PSV’ was founded in 1920 and currently consists of 14,000 members. They own a fan base within the Philips Stadion.  The second one, PSV Fans United, serve a more specific purpose: to improve the atmosphere in the stadium.  Besides the fan unions, there are several sets of fans who work together on tifo choreography, like Lighttown Madness among others.  The PSV Junior Club was founded by PSV in 1998 for children up to 12 years. Later it was renamed Phoxy Club after Phoxy, PSV’s mascot. Currently, more than 20,000 children are member. Every year, the Phoxy Club Day is organized, offering activities for members who are joined by the first team squad.   During pre-season, PSV also holds an Open Day for people of all ages; the event gives the opportunity for sponsors and new player signings to be presented.  The official club anthem was composed by Kees van der Weijden and Jo Vermeulen. It was introduced in 1950 and is currently sung at every home match at 19 minutes and 13 seconds into the game - the time mirroring the club’s foundation year.  , PSV’s main rivalry is with Ajax , with both teams regularly competing for the league title in the last forty years. The PSV fans, whose club has reserved the kit number ‘12’ for them, refer to themselves as ‘boeren’ (peasants); the word can be heard chanted through the home ground after every PSV goal. Its reference designates taking pride in their Brabantian heritage, as opposed to the metropolitan Amsterdam area. The Brabantian identity also plays a fundamental role in the club's culture with the Flag of North Brabant being incorporated in shirt design and being displayed in and around the stadium. PSV used to have an ongoing rivalry with FC Eindhoven , which originated in the 1910s. FC Eindhoven, being the older team, manifested itself as the ‘people’s club’, whereas PSV was only open to Philips employees. In the 1940s and 1950s, PSV and FC Eindhoven were both competing for the league title, which increased the feud and divided the City of Light in ‘red-white striped’ and ‘blue-white striped’.  Fixtures between the two sides were named the 'Lichtstadderby' (' City of Light Derby'). After FC Eindhoven’s decline in the seventies, the rivalry disappeared. Nowadays relations between the two sets of supporters are generally friendly,during the annual pre-season derby supporters even sit in the same end without any major incidents. Although a friendly rivalry still exists it's mostly felt on the FC Eindhoven side. However it is not uncommon for people in Eindhoven to go to FC Eindhoven on Fridays (the usual matchday in the Eerste Divisie ) and to go to PSV on a Saturday or Sunday. In recent times, FC Eindhoven was PSV’s feeder club on several occasions and the clubs share a women’s team and youth setup.    , PSV was an association (‘vereniging’) until 1999, when it became a public limited company with shareholders (‘ naamloze vennootschap ’). It meant that the club installed a board of directors , who are not involved in most of the decision-making processes. Instead, they serve as an advising and supervising entity. All shares but one are owned by a foundation : the Foundation PSV Football. The remaining share is owned by the Eindhoven Football Club PSV, another separate entity. The general manager holds responsibility for all activities regarding the club, and is supported by a manager operations and a treasurer. PSV also appoints a director of football , who manages football-related processes such as transfers (in conjunction with the technical staff), in order to control the long-term planning.  , PSV was founded by Philips and in the first decades, the club was only open to employees. The club did sign players from elsewhere, though; one of the perks of playing for PSV was that players who were offered a football contract, were always offered a Philips job as well. Philips has been kit sponsor since 1982 and the PSV home ground has included the Philips name since its foundation. The company pays 7,5 million euro per year for the sponsoring and will remain kit sponsor until at least 2016.   Frits Philips , chairman of the company between 1961 and 1971, became an icon for PSV during his lifetime. At five years of age, he conducted the ceremonial kick-off at the first Philips Elftal match in 1911.  Frits Philips would become intertwined with PSV and Eindhoven; his 100th birthday was widely celebrated in the city. Frits Philips had his own spot in the stands until his death and would sometimes provide pep talks to the squad during half-time.  PSV was often a way for Philips to introduce its technology to the public. In 1950, a match between PSV and FC Eindhoven was the first televised match in the Netherlands, with Philips supplying the technique.  And in 1958, Philips installed four floodlights in the stadium.  , PSV’s budget in 2011 was 60 million euro.  Before 2011, PSV’s budget would only remain balanced if the team would qualify for the UEFA Champions League every year. But disappointing performances since 2008 meant that the club ended up with a yearly €10-20 million negative balance, forcing the club to cut costs and obtain new revenues. The ground under the stadium and the training facilities were sold for €48,4 million to the Eindhoven municipality in a leasehold estate construction. PSV also took out a €20 million loan with Philips and additional loans with local entrepreneurs.  The club also introduced sponsoring on the back of the player kits. Freo, part of De Lage Landen, was the company to present its name there.  , PSV’s 22 league championships are the second highest in Dutch football, behind Ajax (33).  The nine KNVB Cup victories are the third-highest, after Ajax (18) and Feyenoord (11).  PSV won the most Johan Cruijff Shield ’s so far (9).  The double was achieved four times, with the one in 1988 being part of the treble – a feat only achieved by six other European clubs.  Between 1985 and 1989, and between 2005 and 2008, PSV won the Eredivisie four times in a row; the only other club accomplishing this (once) was HVV Den Haag .  In recent decades, the team has been consistently competing for the top spots in the league: in the Eredivisie all-time standings (since 1956), PSV are second behind Ajax.  PSV have played in a European competition every year since 1974. Only FC Barcelona (since 1959) and Anderlecht (since 1964) have a longer streak in play.  , Willy van der Kuijlen currently holds the record for the most league appearances and the most league goals. He played 528 matches and scored 308 goals between 1964 and 1981.  Willy van de Kerkhof played the second-highest amount of league matches for PSV; he appeared in 418 Eredivisie fixtures.  The third-highest in the list is Jan Heintze with 395 games.  The second-highest goal scorer for PSV is Coen Dillen , who produced 288 goals.  Third in the list is Piet Fransen with 210 goals.  The record for number of goals in one season stands at 43, scored by Dillen in the 1956-57 season. This figure is also a national record.  Another domestic record is the amount of consecutive minutes with a clean sheet. The number stands at 1159 minutes, which PSV achieved in 2004 with two different goalkeepers: Heurelho Gomes and Edwin Zoetebier .  The largest transfer fee PSV have ever received was for Ruud van Nistelrooy ; Manchester United paid €30 million for the striker in 2001.  Mateja Kežman 's move to PSV in 2000 was the most expensive incoming transfer; €11,3 million was paid to FK Partizan .  , In 2010, PSV made international headlines when they humiliated former European champions Feyenoord 10-0. , Below is a table with PSV's domestic results since the introduction of the Eredivisie in 1956. , As of 25 June 2015 , For recent transfers, see List of Dutch football transfers summer 2015 , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , 12 – Club Supporters (the 12th Man) , 99 – Phoxy (Mascot) , As of 27 June 2013.  , 2014   PEC Zwolle  FK Crvena zvezda ( Serbian Cyrillic : Фудбалски клуб Црвена звезда , Serbian pronunciation:  [t͡sřʋenaː zʋěːzda] , English: Red Star Football Club, commonly known as Red Star Belgrade ) is a Serbian professional football club based in Belgrade , the major part of the Red Star Sports Society with 25 national championships and 24 national cups in both Serbian and ex-Yugoslav competitions. They are the only Serbian and Ex-Yugoslav club to have won the European Cup , having done so in 1991 , and the only team from the Southeastern and Eastern Europe to have won the Intercontinental Cup , which it also won in 1991 . Red Star was the most successful club in former Yugoslavia and finished as first in the Yugoslav First League all-time table.  , In the following season, Red Star reached the semi-finals of the European Cup . Before they reached 1957 , 1971 , the semi-finals, as well as 1958 , 1974 , 1981 , 1982 , 1987 the quarterfinals of the European Cup . In 1979 , they reached the UEFA Cup final , but lost to Borussia Mönchengladbach . Also, they reached in 1975 the semifinals of the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup . Therefore, Red Star is the most successful club from the Southeastern- and Eastern Europe, being the only club which was both European and World club champion. However, since the 1991–92 season, Red Star failed to qualify in the group stages of UEFA Champions League . , According to 2008 polls, Red Star Belgrade is the most popular football club in Serbia, with nearly 48.2% of the population supporting them.  They have many supporters in all other former Yugoslavian republics and in the Serbian diaspora . Their main rivals are fellow Belgrade side Partizan . The championship matches between these two clubs are known as The Eternal derby . In September 2009, British Daily Mail ranked the Red Star – Partizan derby fourth among the 10 greatest football rivalries of all time.  , According to the International Federation of Football History & Statistics ' list of the Top 200 European clubs of the 20th century, Red Star Belgrade is the highest-ranked Serbian and Ex-Yugoslavian club, sharing the 27th position on the list with Dutch club Feyenoord Rotterdam .  [ not in citation given ] , , , In February 1945, during World War II , a group of young men, members of the Serbian United Antifascist Youth League, decided to form a Youth Physical Culture Society, that was to become Red Star Belgrade on 4 March. At the end of the Second World War , several pre-war Yugoslav clubs were dissolved because they had played matches during the war and were labelled collaborators by Marshal Tito's communist authorities. Two of these clubs from Belgrade were SK Jugoslavija and BSK Belgrade . Red Star was formed from the remains of Jugoslavija and they were given Jugoslavija's stadium, offices, players, and even their red and white colours. The name Red Star was assigned to the club after a long discussion, and the first vice presidents of the Sport Society, Zoran Žujović and Slobodan Ćosić, were the ones who assigned it.  Red star was soon adopted as a symbol of Yugoslavia and Serbia , a sporting institution that remains the country's most popular to this day.  On that day, Red Star played the first football match in the club's history against the First Battalion of the Second Brigade of KNOJ (People's Defence Corps of Yugoslavia ) and won, 3–0. , Red Star's first successes involved small steps to recognition. The club won its first championship in 1951 . It was a team of players consisting of Stanković , Popović , Mitić , Kostić and Šekularac . Those football players, whose names are still remembered, won four Yugoslav championships and two Cups, not missing the opportunity to win every Yugoslav Trophy for five straight seasons. As champions, Red Star were Yugoslavia's entrants into the 1957–58 European Cup where they were famously beaten, 5–4, on aggregate by English champions Manchester United in the quarter-finals, with the team managed by Matt Busby beating Red Star, 2–1, in the first leg in England before drawing, 3–3, with them in Yugoslavia in the return game on 5 February at JNA Stadium .  The second leg is notable for being the last game played by the " Busby Babes ". On the return flight to England the following day, the plane crashed in Munich , West Germany , resulting in the deaths of 23 people including eight Manchester United players.  , , After the Miljanić era, it was not before the time of Gojko Zec , whose reign as head coach was to last four years and bring Red Star three trophies and the first great European final. The first season with Gojko Zec at the helm was quite literally a real demonstration of force – the league was won with an advantage of nine points over all rivals , which was, up to that moment, the biggest margin of victory in the history of the league. In the following season, Red Star finished second in the league, paving the way for a great performance in the 1978–1979 season of the UEFA Cup . After eliminating teams like Arsenal , West Bromwich and Hertha BSC , Red Star achieved for the first time the Cup final . And there, Red Star met on Borussia Mönchengladbach , which played five European finals from 1973–1980. The Germans, awaited about 100,000 fiery supporters, fall in residues by a goal from Miloš Šestić , but Jurišić’s gave Gladbach a psychological advantage before the rematch. This game was played at the Rheinstadion in Düsseldorf, where Italian referee gave a questionable penalty to the Germans, and the Danish player Allan Simonsen sealed Red Star's fate. The Foals won, 2–1, on aggregate.  , After the 1970s, historical matches against Udo Lattek ’s Barcelona followed during the 1982–83 European Cup Winners' Cup . In both matches Barcelona was the better team and Red Star was finally eliminated. Remarkably was, when Barça’s Maradona scored his second goal in front of about 100,000 spectators at "Marakana" , the Belgrade audience were so excited about the goal, that even the loyal Belgrade fans applauded Maradona.  Gojko Zec returns to the team in 1983, finding only one player from the champions generation he was coaching back in 1977 – Miloš Šestić . Zec similarly repeated the team’s triumph from his previous mandate by winning the championship immediately upon his arrival. Gojko Zec would later leave the club in a controversial Scheiber's case -style scandal which was the result of irregularities in the 1986 season. , , After Zec left in 1986, there were great changes in the club. The management of the club, run by Dragan Džajić and Vladimir Cvetković , began to build a team that could compete with some of the most powerful European side. During that summer, Velibor Vasović became coach and the side was strengthened by acquiring a number of talented young players, among whom Dragan Stojković and Borislav Cvetković stood out. In the first season that started with penalty points, Red Star focused on the European Cup and achieving good results. In 1987, a five-year plan was developed by the club with the only goal being to win the European Cup. All that was planned was finally achieved. On the club's birthday in 1987 , it started. Real Madrid were defeated at " Marakana ". From that day through to March 1992, Red Star enjoyed the best period of success in its history. In these five seasons, Red Star won four National Championships; in the last of those four years of heyday, the club won the 1991 European Cup Final which was played in Bari . Red Star coach Petrović brought the team to Italy a week before the finals, in order to peacefully prepare the players for a forthcoming encounter with Olympique . By that time, Red Star had 18 scores at 8 matches, whereas the French champion had 20. Therefore, the 100th European competing final was expected to be a spectacle of offense. Nonetheless, both Petrović and Goethals opted for a defence and the match settled down into a war of attrition. After a 120-minute game and only few chances on both sides, the decision was made following the penalty shootout. After several minutes of stressful penalties, two of Marseille's players missed their penalties, and Darko Pančev converted his penalty and brought the European Cup to Yugoslavia for the first time. Red Star won the shootout, 5–3, on 29 May 1991 in front of 60,000 spectators and the millions watching on television around the world. 20,000 Red Star fans at Stadio San Nicola and millions of them all over Yugoslavia and the World celebrate the greatest joy in Red Star’s history. Sadly the night of the 1991 European Cup Final was to prove to be one of the final times that Yugoslavia could come together to celebrate as one.   They won unbeaten the 1990–91 European Cup in Bari and the 1991 Intercontinental Cup in Tokyo . , In 1992, the club was weakened by the departure of almost the whole champions generation (new players were later added, such as Drobnjak and Ivić ). In addition, Red Star had to defend the trophy out of their country due to the war in former Yugoslavia (not even in Serbia, although there was possible), thereby reducing their chances of defending their title. UEFA changed the form of the championship that year and instead of the cup they started the 1991–92 Champions League , in which eight best teams from the continent participated. In domestic competition, main rival Dinamo Zagreb left the league, just as all the other clubs from Croatia , Macedonia and Slovenia did, and the championship in a Yugoslavia that was cut in size was played on the edge of observance of regulations around the beginning of the Bosnian War . At the end of May the UN had the country under sanctions and dislodging Yugoslav football from the international scene. The disintegration of Yugoslavia, the civil war (1992–1995), the inflation and the UN sanctions have hit Red Star hard. In the period between May 1992 and May 2000, only one championship victory was celebrated at "Marakana" . However, they did manage to win five cups, along with several glorious European performances, including the famed 1996 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup showdown against an FC Barcelona side which featured Ronaldo and Hristo Stoichkov . , Immediately after the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia ended, Red Star won the 17th cup in its history by winning 4:2 against Partizan . Just a season later, the club returned to the European spotlight by making it to the 2001–02 UEFA Champions League qualification, where Red Star was eliminated by Bayer from Leverkusen (0–0 and 0–3 in away), which would later be a finalist in the Champions League that year. Muslin left the bench in September 2001, after which Red Star's subsequent seasons became more volatile. , In the 2006–07 UEFA Champions League qualifying rounds , Red Star was barely eliminated (by 3–1 aggregate score) same A.C. Milan side which ended up winning the 2007 UEFA Champions League Final . Furthermore, the campaign in Group F of the 2007–08 UEFA Cup was a large disappointment, especially given that the first game against Bayern Munich was a sensational last-minute loss (by a score of 2–3 in Belgrade). In those recent years, Red Star's teams featured the likes of Žigić , Pantelić , Janković , Luković , Basta , Biševac , Milijaš , Koroman , Castillo , Gueye , and Đokić . After a six-year drought, Red star won their 26th league title in season 2013–14 . , Despite Red Star's success on the pitch in 2013–14, the financial situation at the club has worsened—so much so that the club were banned from participating in the 2014–15 UEFA Champions League for which they qualified by winning the Serbian SuperLiga. The UEFA Club Financial Control Body found that Red Star's debts to players, some of whom had not been paid for at least six months, staff and other clubs, totalled €1.86 million. The club board were also alleged to have hidden debts and falsified documents. This, on top of an earlier UEFA disciplinary measure in 2011, meant Red Star did not meet the necessary Club Licencing and Financial Fair Play criteria and, as such, should not have been granted a UEFA license by the Serbian FA.  Rivals Partizan took Red Star's place in the UEFA Champions League. , At the end of the World War II , several of pre-war Yugoslav clubs were dissolved because they had played matches during the war and were labelled collaborators by Marshal Tito's communist authorities. One of these clubs were SK Jugoslavija from Belgrade . Red Star was formed from the remains of Jugoslavija and they were given their red and white colours. The typical kit of Red Star is a shirt with red and white vertical stripes, and red or white shorts and socks. Sometimes used the club also an all-red one next to the all-white one. Red Star used also as away kit or third kit, an all-blue jersey, but very rarely, so that the club used all the colours of the Serbian flag . The crest is a red five-pointed star, white framed, on a red-white background. In addition, the whole crest is framed with gold colour. In two golden stars on the top of their emblem, symbolizing the twenty titles won. , Red Star's home ground is the "Rajko Mitić" Stadium (since 21 December 2014.), formerly known as Red Star stadium. With a maximum capacity of about 60 000, of which 55,538 seats, it is the largest stadium in Serbia and in the former Yugoslavia . The stadium was opened in 1963, and in the course of time and due to the fact that stadium's former capacity was about 110,000, it got the unofficial moniker "Marakana" , after the large and famous Maracanã stadium in Brazil, and Belgrad's sold-out "Marakana" garnered the reputation of being a very tough ground for visiting teams to play in. During the mid-90s, in order to meet UEFA demands for spectators comfort and security, standing places at the stadium were completely done away with and seats were installed on all four stands. In the years, since the stadium's capacity was gradually decreased, followed different stadium modernisations. In 2008, the club reconstructed the stadium's pitch, under-soil grass heaters , improved drainage systems were installed and new modern turf replaced the old surface. The training pitch, located next to the stadium, was also renovated by laying down synthetic turf and installing new lighting equipment. In 2011, the stadium received also a new modern LED scoreboard . Today, the stadium has a central lodge, named 5 Zvezdinih Zvezda (English: 5 Star's of Red Star), which consist of five segments, each bears the name of one of Red Star's legendary players ( Mitić , Šekularac , Džajić , Petrović , Stojković ), two other VIP lounges and a special VIP gallery with over 450 seats. It has also modern press box with a capacity of 344 seats including seven extra-comfortable seats, an extra media center, the Red Cafe and a restaurant. On the west stand of the stadium exist also an official Red Star shop along with a Delije shop. The playing field measures are 110 x 73 m, and is illuminated at 1,400 lux floodlights . According to the known German Web portal "Stadionwelt" , belongs Belgrade’s "Marakana" to the Top 50 football stadiums in Europa, that must be seen.  In 2012, American Bleacher Report ranked the Red Star Stadium, especially if it’s sold out, on the 1st place among the most intimidating stadiums in the world.  , Some of the most notable home-grown players are Dragan Džajić , officially the best player in the history of Serbia (the choice of the Football Association on the 50th anniversary of UEFA , known as the Golden Player ), who achieved the 3rd place at the election for the European Footballer of the Year in 1968 , then Dragoslav Šekularac - a runner-up with Yugoslavia at the 1960 European Football Championship , Vladimir Petrović "Pižon" - the fourth Star of Red Star , Vladimir Jugović - two times the European Cup winner (with Red Star & Juventus), as well as Nemanja Vidić , Dejan Stanković and Dušan Savić . , Other former home-grown players include Stanislav Karasi , Vladica Popović , Vladislav Bogićević , Boško and Milko Đurovski , Zoran Filipović , Ratomir Dujković , Ognjen Petrović , Stevan Stojanović (the goalkeeper of the European Cup winner 1991 generation) and Miloš Šestić . Further notable players from the last 25 years are Perica Ognjenović , Nebojša Krupniković , Goran Drulić , Zoran Jovičić , Vladan Lukić , Goran Gavrančić , Nikola Lazetić , Marko Pantelić , Boško Janković , Dušan Basta , Nenad Tomović , Zvonko Milojević , Filip Đorđević , Vladimir Stojković , Dragan Mrđa , Dejan Milovanović and Vladimir Dišljenković . , Former Red Star & Real Madrid football coach legend Miljan Miljanić , was also a member of Red Star’s football youth school. , The organized supporters of Red Star are known as Delije , the plural of the singular form Delija , which in Serbian generally signifies a courageous, brave, strong or even handsome young man. A rough English translation might be simply "Hardman" or "Studs". The name Delije first began to be used by hardcore Red Star supporters during the late 1980s, with official inauguration taking place in 1989. Up to that point, the Red Star fans were scattered amongst several organized fan groups that shared in the north stand of Red Star's stadium . The Delije belongs today to one of the most famous supporter groups in the world, who support all clubs in the Red Star Sports Society . Their style of supporting includes the use of large and small flags, displaying of banners and especially the creation of colorful and large choreographies, noisy and constant cheering and other supporters stuff. The acoustic support is often coordinated by a so-called "Vodja" (Serbian: leader) by a megaphone and accompanied by drums. Delije members exist also outside of Belgrade , as well exist various fan groups in cities across Serbia , Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina . They also have members in all other former Yugoslavian republics and in the Yugoslavian diaspora. As a sign of appreciation, Red Star painted in the late 1990s, the word Delije in block letters across their stadium's north stand. , Red Star’s fiercest and long standing city rival is FK Partizan , the other large and popular sport society in Serbia . The clubs are also the most popular ones in Montenegro and Republika Srpska . They also have many supporters in all other former Yugoslavian republics and also in the Yugoslavian diaspora. The rivalry started immediately after the creation of the two clubs in 1945. Red Star was founded with close ties to the Interior ministry and Partizan as the football section of the Yugoslav People's Army . Since then, both clubs have been dominant in domestic football. The match is particularly noted for the passion of the Red Star’s supporters, called Delije, and Partizan’s supporters, the Grobari (English: Gravediggers or Undertakers). The stands of both teams feature fireworks, coloured confetti, flags, rolls of paper, torches, smoke, drums, giant posters and choreographies, used to create visual grandeur and apply psychological pressure on the visiting teams, hence the slogan "Welcome to Hellgrade" . Some fans also sometimes use trumpets, similar to the supporters in South America. This creates for the region a typical and distinctive Balkan Brass Band atmosphere. Both sets of supporters sing passionate songs against their rivals, and the stadiums are known to bounce with the simultaneous jumping of the fans. There are many derbies in world football but very few compare to this, it is more than just game and has a deeper meaning. The duel is regarded as one of the greatest football rivalries in the world and the matches between these rivals have been labeled as the Eternal derby . Given its widespread touch on the entirety of a major city, it's dubbed one of, along with the Old Firm, the Rome derby and the Istanbul derby, the most heated rivalries in European football.  In 2009, British Daily Mail ranked the Eternal derby 4th among the 10 greatest football rivalries of all time.  The biggest attendance for a Red Star - Partizan match was about 108,000 spectators at the Red Star Stadium . , Red Star has won 2 international trophies 2 regional and 50 domestic making them the most successful football club in former Yugoslavia. , National Championships – 26 (record) , National Cups – 24 (record) , Red Star is the most successful club from Serbia (and former Yugoslavia) in all European competitions, and the only club from Eastern Europe that has won both UEFA Champions League and Intercontinental Cup . The club competed in 50 European seasons, and the most notable results are: , International titles – 4 , Other Tournaments - 17 , Yugoslav First League top scorers , FR Yugoslavia First League top scorers , Serbia and Montenegro First League top scorers , Serbian SuperLiga top scorers , |} , Serbian SuperLiga Footballer of the Year , Dragan Džajić is Red Star’s record appearance holder, with 615 matches. The goal-scoring record-holder is also Dragan Džajić , with 370 goals. Numerous Red Star’s players were in the Yugoslavian national team and Rajko Mitić , Dragoslav Šekularac , Dragan Džajić , Branko Stanković , Vladimir Durković , Vladica Popović , Jovan Aćimović , Vladimir Petrović , Tomislav Ivković , Dušan Savić , Miloš Šestić , Dragan Stojković and Dejan Savićević (a former player A.C. Milan ) are among them. Dragan Džajić played 85 matches for the Yugoslavian national football team, a national record. Red Star holds records such as to be only the second foreign team that could beat Liverpool on the Anfield Road (after Ferencváros in the 1967–68 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup ), which was also the only defeat of Liverpool at home in the European Cup history in the whole 20th century (during 1973–74 European Cup ).  Red Star was also the first team that could beat Bayern Munich on the Olympic Stadium in its long UEFA competition history (during the 1990–91 European Cup ).  They are the only Serbian (and ex- Yugoslav ) club, and only the second team from this southern corner of Europe and Eastern Europe , to have ever won the European Cup , having done in 1991 , which was also the 100th UEFA competing final. Red Star is among the nine clubs, which have ever won the European Cup unbeaten. They are also the only team from the Balkans and Eastern Europe to have ever won the Intercontinental Cup , which it won also in 1991 . Red Star is the second most successful club from the Balkans and Eastern Europe , behind only to FC Steaua Bucharest , being the only club to win both UEFA Champions League and Intercontinental Cup . The Romanian football player Miodrag Belodedici was the first ever Red Star player to have won the European Cup with two different teams, Steaua and Red Star, and very curious both of the team's names mean "Star". Later, the double winners were also Dejan Savićević (Red Star and AC Milan) and Vladimir Jugović (Red Star and Juventus) , Last updated on: 7 September 2014 , Last updated on: 25 October 2013 , , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , For recent transfers, see List of Serbian football transfers summer 2015 . , 12 – Delije (the 12th Man) , For details see List of Red Star Belgrade football coaches , Red Star has almost a 50-year-long tradition of giving the title of the Star of Red Star ( Serbian : Звездина звезда / Zvezdina zvezda ) to the players that had a major impact on the club's history and have made the name of the club famous around the globe. So far, five players and the entire 1991 team were officially given the title. They are: , Coach: , Goalkeepers : , Defenders : , Midfielders : , Strikers : , Lee Cooper - Kristal Zaječar - Drina - Casucci - DEXIM , Sharp , The popular Serbian folk singer Boban Zdravković, devoted during the 90s to Red Star a song with the name "Marakano". Among the Red Star fans the song become to a cult.  , The club's name in Serbian is also the title of the 2013 Italian novel Crvena Zvezda by Enrico Varrecchione. Written in the alternate history genre, utilizing elements of uchronia , its story is based on the premise of what if the 9 November 1988 return leg of the European Cup second round clash between Red Star and AC Milan hadn't been ordered abandoned by German referee Dieter Pauly in the 65th minute due to thick fog that night in Belgrade. Red Star was leading 1-0 on a goal by Dejan Savićević and was also a man up due to Milan striker Pietro Paolo Virdis receiving a red card. After abandonment, UEFA cancelled the match and ordered it replayed in full the next day. This time it finished 1-1 and went to penalties (the first leg in Milan also ended 1-1) where Milan won and went through to the quarter-finals, eventually winning the European Cup — thus getting the coveted trophy again after twenty years, the club's first under its recently arrived owner, ambitious businessman Silvio Berlusconi . In the novel's parallel universe, Red Star won the 8 November 1988 match in Belgrade and eliminated AC Milan, which thus never won its 1989 European Cup, meaning that Berlusconi's ultimate entry into Italian politics had a much weaker background push, which adversely affected his performance at the 1994 Italian general election .  The novel also follows the fate of Red Star's fictional striker, loosely based on Savićević, Jovan Eldzic who scored the famous goal in the fog and later went on to transfer to AC Milan where he achieved more accolades, eventually taking Italian citizenship, remaining living in Italy upon retiring from football before entering politics and running for mayor of a small town in Piedmont 's Alessandria province.  , Billy Bragg 's 1991 UK top thirty hit song " Sexuality " contains the lyric "I had an uncle who once played for Red Star Belgrade." When interviewed many years later Bragg was asked if this was true, to which he replied that his uncle actually played for Fulham but that did not fit the rhyme with played.  , Two non-related bands, one of them from Great Yarmouth , Great Britain,   and the other one from Chapel Hill, North Carolina , United States,  shared the name Red Star Belgrade .  Stade de Reims ( [stɑd də ʁɛ̃s] ; commonly referred to as Stade Reims or simply Reims ) is a French association football club based in Reims . The club was formed in 1910 under the name Société Sportive du Parc Pommery and currently play in Ligue 1 , the top level of French football having achieved promotion to the league following the 2011–12 season . Reims plays its home matches at the Stade Auguste Delaune , a renovation of the old complex located within the city. The team is managed by Olivier Guégan and captained by defender Mickaël Tacalfred . , Stade Reims is one of the most successful clubs in French football history having won six Ligue 1 titles, two Coupe de France trophies, and five Trophée des champions titles. The club has also performed well on European level having finished as runners-up in the 1956 and 1959 editions of the European Cup and winning the Latin Cup and Coppa delle Alpi in 1953 and 1977, respectively. However, since the 1980s, Reims have struggled to get back to their zenith. The club hovered between Ligue 2 and the Championnat National for over thirty years after their relegation from the top flight in the 1978–79 season . In 2012, though, they were promoted back to Ligue 1 where they currently remain. , Historically, Stade Reims is viewed as a legendary club within French football circles, not only due to its domestic and European accolades, but its charity towards the France national team through the 1940s and 50s, as well. Reims were largely responsible for the first Golden Generation of French football with notable national team members Roger Marche , Raymond Kopa , Just Fontaine , Jean Vincent , Robert Jonquet , Armand Penverne , Dominique Colonna , and Roger Piantoni all playing for Reims during the national team's successful run to the semi-finals at the 1958 FIFA World Cup . , , , Stade de Reims was founded in 1910 under the name Société Sportive du Parc Pommery under the guidance of Marquis Melchior de Polignac, a Frenchman who later went on to serve on the International Olympic Committee .  The club adopted its current name on 18 June 1931. Despite the country adopting professional football in 1932, Reims remained an amateur club until 1935 after the club won the Championnat de France amateur under the leadership of Scotsman Billy Aitken . The club reached Division 1 for the first time in the 1945–46 season , the first championship following the conclusion of World War II. During the same year, the club promoted defender Robert Jonquet to the senior team and signed Roger Marche from Olympique de Charleville . Together, the two went on to become, arguably, the club's most famous players in its history. , Reims won its first Division 1 championship in 1949 . Led by a talented backline of Marche, Jonquet, and Armand Penverne , as well as midfielders Albert Batteux and Michel Leblond , and an under-rated striker trio of Pierre Flamion , Pierre Sinibaldi , and Pierre Bini, Reims won the league by a single point over Lille. The following season, the club won the Coupe de France defeating Racing Paris 2–1 in the final . After the season, manager Henri Roessler departed the club and longtime player Batteux took the reins. The team's subsequent rise in the sport led to the signings of Raymond Kopa and Raoul Giraudo . In 1953, Reims won its second league title winning the league by four points. That same year, the club won the Latin Cup becoming the first French football club to attained the honour. The victory was cited as a coup for France after the country finished three straight years as runners-up in the competition. After the 1954 season, Marche left to play for the Racing team in Paris. In 1955, Reims won its third title in six seasons. The championship led to the club's qualification for the newly created European Cup . , In the inaugural edition of the European Cup, Reims reached the final where the team was defeated 4–3 by Spanish club Real Madrid . Reims controlled the match from the outset scoring two goals in the first ten minutes. However, two first half goals by Alfredo Di Stéfano and Héctor Rial for Madrid cancelled out Reims' early attacks. In the second half, Reims took the lead through Michel Hidalgo , but within minutes, the match was re-drawn courtesy of a goal from Marquitos . Rial's game-winner in the 79th minute ended Reims' hopes of winning the first edition of the European Cup. In the following season, Reims lost prominent midfielder Kopa to Madrid, but still were able to recruit French internationals Just Fontaine , Jean Vincent , Roger Piantoni , and Dominique Colonna to the team. After early struggles, the additions paid off with the club winning its third title of the decade in the 1957–58 season . The team also won the Coupe de France after beating Nîmes Olympique 3–1 in the final , thus achieving the double . , In the 1958–59 edition of the European Cup, Reims returned to the final to face, for the second time, Real Madrid. Aside from Kopa switching sides and the arrival of Fontaine, Colonna, Piantoni, and Vincent to Reims, the line-ups were nearly identical to the previous meeting. However, an undeterred Madrid, who had already won the competition three times, cruised through to a victory with a convincing 2–0 win. After the season, Penverne departed the club. The team was, however, boosted by the return of Kopa who, subsequently led the team to its fifth league title in 11 seasons in 1960 . Following the season, Jonquet retired from international football and left Reims for Strasbourg. He was followed by Giraudo and Leblond. The departures failed to hinder Reims' performances domestically as the team won the league in 1962 . The championship capped an amazing career for Just Fontaine, who, subsequently, retired from football. In the ensuing season, which was longtime manager Albert Batteux's last, Reims finished runner-up to AS Monaco in the league and, the following season, shocked many by finishing 17th, which resulted in the club falling to the second division. The relegation led to the departures or retirements of many of the players who were a part of Reims' dynastic run in the 1950s; all except for Kopa who remained with Reims until 1967. , Reims returned to top-flight for the 1966–67 season after two seasons in the second division. However, the stint proved short with Reims finishing 19th. In 1970, the club returned to top-flight and many in the league for nearly a decade. Reims' best performance in the league during its nine-year stint was finishing 5th in the 1975–76 season . Reims were relegated in 1979 and didn't return to the first division of French football for 33 years. In the ensuing season in Division 2, Reims was limited financially and was forced to field a much younger team during the campaign. Despite the return of former popular player Carlos Bianchi as manager during the mid-1980s, the club failed to return to Division 1. Reims did surprise many by reaching the semi-finals of the Coupe de France in back-to-back seasons in 1987 and 1988. As the years wore on, the club's financial situation began to take a turn for the worse and, in 1991, Reims was administratively relegated to Division 3 after its failure to find a buyer to help alleviate the club's debt, which had exceeded over ₣50 million. In October 1991, the club underwent liquidation and changed its name to Stade de Reims Champagne FC . The club spent the 1991–92 season in Division 3 and were, surprisingly, declared ineligible to compete in the league ahead of its final league match in May 1992 after a judicial liquidation resulted in the stoppage of the club's activities. In the ensuing months, all aspects of the club (its records, trophies, etc.) were auctioned off. , Reims was reborn in July 1992 under the name Stade de Reims Champagne . The club began play in the Division d'Honneur and spent two seasons in the league before earning promotion to the Championnat National . Reims spent the final years of the century playing in National and the Championnat de France amateur . In November 1996, most of the club's items that were sold in the 1992 auction were re-acquired under the assistance of the Alain Afflelou retail chain. In July 1999, the club changed its name back to Stade de Reims and, after three years, were rewarded with professional status after earning promotion back to Ligue 2 . The club's return to Ligue 2 in 2002 was brief. Reims finished bottom of the league. In the next season playing in National, Reims won the league returning to Ligue 2. The club spent the next five seasons playing in the second division failing to finish in the top half of the table in every campaign. In the 2008–09 season , Reims were relegated from Ligue 2 and, like its previous relegation, responded by returning to the league after one season in National after finishing 2nd. Reims finished Ligue 2 as 10th in 2010–11 season. Reims finally finished the league as runner-up and returned to Ligue 1 after 33 years. , As of 31 August 2014.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Below are the notable former players who have represented Stade Reims in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1910. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 100 official matches for the club. , For a complete list of Stade Reims players, see Category:Stade de Reims players  Club Atlético de Madrid, SAD ( Spanish pronunciation:  [ˈkluβ aðˈletiko ðe maˈðɾið] ), commonly known as Atlético de Madrid or Atlético , is a Spanish professional football club based in Madrid that plays in La Liga . , In terms of the number of titles , Atlético Madrid is the fourth most successful club in Spanish Football behind Real Madrid CF , FC Barcelona and Athletic Bilbao . , Atlético have won La Liga on ten occasions, including a league and cup double in 1996; the Copa del Rey on ten occasions; 2 Supercopa de España and 1 Copa Eva Duarte ; in Europe, they won the European Cup Winners' Cup in 1962, runners-up in 1963 and 1986 , were European Cup runners-up in 1974 and 2014 ,  won the Europa League in 2010 and in 2012, won the UEFA Super Cup in 2010 and 2012, won the Intertoto Cup in 2007, as well as the 1974 Intercontinental Cup . , The club play their home games at the Vicente Calderón ,  which holds up to 54,960 spectators. In 2016, Atletico are due to move to their new home of Estadio La Peineta which will have a capacity of 70,000. , Atletico's home kit is red and white vertical striped shirts, with blue shorts, accompanied by blue and red socks. This combination has been used since 1911. The current club kits are manufactured by Nike and the main sponsor is Azerbaijan . , During their history, the club has been known by a number of nicknames, including Los Colchoneros ("The Mattress Makers"), due to their first team stripes being the same colours as old-fashioned mattresses. During the 1970s, they became known as Los Indios , allegedly due to the club signing several South American players after the restrictions on signing foreign players were lifted. However, there are a number of alternative theories which claim they were named so because their stadium is "camped" on the river bank, or because Los Indios (The Indians) were the traditional enemy of Los Blancos (The Whites), which is the nickname of the club's city rivals, Real Madrid .  , Felipe VI , the current king of Spain, is the Honorary President of the Club since 2003. , The club co-owns the Indian Super League franchise of Kolkata , named Atletico de Kolkata , which won the inaugural Season of the Indian Super League in 2014. , , , The club was founded on 26 April 1903  as Athletic Club de Madrid by three Basque students living in Madrid . These founders saw the new club as a youth branch of their childhood team, Athletic Bilbao .  In 1904, they were joined by dissident members of Real Madrid.  They began playing in blue and white, similarly to Athletic Bilbao, but by 1911, Athletic were playing in their current colours of red and white stripes. Many believe the change was influenced because red and white striped tops were the cheapest stripes to make, because the same combination was used to make bed mattresses, and the unused cloth was easily converted into football shirts. This discovery of a cheaper option probably persuaded them to change and influenced the Madrid club being come to known as Los Colchoneros nickname. Another more plausible account of the reason to change colours is that both Athletic Bilbao and Athletic Madrid used to buy Blackburn Rovers blue and white kits in England.  Once in 1911, Juanito Elorduy, former player and member of the board of Athletic Madrid, went to England to buy kits for both teams. He did not find Blackburn Rovers kits and bought Southampton F.C. red and white ones instead. Athletic Madrid adopted the red and white shirt but opted to keep Blackburn Rovers' blue shorts, leading to them also being known as Los Rojiblancos . , Atletico's first ground, the Ronda de Vallecas , was situated in the eponymous working-class area on the south side of the city. In 1919, the Compañía Urbanizadora Metropolitana—the company that ran the underground communication system in Madrid—acquired some land, near the Ciudad Universitaria . And in 1921, Athletic Madrid became independent of parent-club Athletic Bilbao. As part of that project the company built a sports stadium, named Estadio Metropolitano de Madrid and Athletic had a new a 35,800 seat home.  The Metropolitano was used until 1966, when they moved to the new Estadio Vicente Calderón .  After the move, the Metropolitano was demolished and was replaced with university buildings and an office block belonging to the company ENUSA. , During the 1920s, Athletic won the Campeonato del Centro three times and they were Copa del Rey runners-up in 1921 , ironically this final saw them face parent club Athletic Bilbao, and 1926 . Based on this record, they were invited to join the Primera División of the inaugural La Liga in 1928. During their debut La Liga season, the club were managed by Fred Pentland , but after two seasons in the Primera División they were relegated to Segunda División . They briefly returned to La Liga in 1934. But were relegated again in 1936, after Josep Samitier took over in mid-season from Pentland. Fortunately for Los Colchoneros the Spanish Civil War gave the club a reprieve, because Real Oviedo was unable to play due to the destruction of their stadium during the bombings. Thus both La Liga and Athletic's relegation were postponed, the latter by winning a playoff against CA Osasuna , champion of the Segunda División tournament. , By 1939, when La Liga had resumed, Athletic had merged with Aviación Nacional of Zaragoza to become Athletic Aviación de Madrid . Aviación Nacional had been founded in 1939 by members of the Spanish Air Force . They had been promised a place in the Primera División for the 1939–40 season, only to be denied by the RFEF . As a compromise this club merged with Athletic, whose squad had lost eight players in the Spanish Civil War. The team were awarded a place in the 1939–40 La Liga campaign only as a replacement for Real Oviedo. With the legendary Ricardo Zamora as manager, the club subsequently won their first La Liga title that season and then retained the title in 1941 . The most influential and charismatic player of these years was the captain Germán Gómez , who was signed from Racing de Santander in 1939. He played eight consecutive seasons for 'the rojiblancos', until the 1947–48 campaign . From his centre-midfield position he formed a legendary midfield alongside Machín and Ramón Gabilondo . In 1941, a decree issued by Franco  banned teams from using foreign names and the club became Atlético Aviacion de Madrid . In 1947, the club decided to drop the military association from its name and settled on its current name of Club Atlético de Madrid . The same year saw Atlético beat Real Madrid 5–0 at the Metropolitano ; their biggest win over their cross-town rivals to date.  , Under Helenio Herrera and with the help of Larbi Benbarek , Atlético won La Liga again in 1950 and 1951 . With the departure of Herrera in 1953, the club began to slip behind Real Madrid and FC Barcelona and for the remainder of the 1950s they were left to battle it out with Athletic Bilbao for the title of third team in Spain . , However during the 1960s and 1970s, Atlético Madrid seriously challenged Barcelona for the position of second team. The 1957–58 season saw Fernando Daucik take charge of Atlético and he led them to second place in La Liga. This resulted in Atlético qualifying for the 1958–59 season of the European Cup since the winners, Real Madrid, were the reigning European champions. Inspired by Brazilian centre-forward Vavá and Enrique Collar , Atlético reached the semi-finals after beating Drumcondra , CSKA Sofia and Schalke .  In the semi-finals, they met Real Madrid. Real won the first leg 2–1 at the Bernabéu while Atlético won 1–0 at the Metropolitano .  The tie went to a replay and Real won 2–1 in Zaragoza .  , Atlético, however, gained their revenge when, led by former Real coach José Villalonga , they defeated Real in two successive Copa del Rey finals in 1960 and 1961 . In 1962 they won the European Cup Winners' Cup beating Fiorentina 3–0 after a replay.  This achievement is signifficant as the Cup winners' Cup was the only major European trophy that Real Madrid never won. The following year the club reached the 1963 final, but lost to English side Tottenham Hotspur 5–1.  Enrique Collar ,  who continued to be an influential player during this era, was now joined by the likes of midfielder Miguel Jones and midfield playmaker Adelardo .  , Unfortunately for Atlético fans, their best years coincided with dominant Real Madrid teams. Between 1961 and 1980, Real Madrid dominated La Liga with the club winning the competition 14 times. During this era only Atlético offered Real any serious challenge, winning La Liga titles in 1966 , 1970 , 1973 and 1977 . They were also runners-up in 1961 , 1963 and 1965 . The club had further success winning the Copa del Rey on three occasions in 1965 , 1972 and 1976 . In 1965, when they finished as La Liga runners-up to Real after an intense battle for the title, Atlético became the first team to beat Real at the Bernabéu in eight years. , Significant players from this era included the now veteran Adelardo and regular goalscorers Luis Aragonés , Javier Irureta and José Eulogio Gárate . The latter won the Pichichi three times in 1969, 1970 and 1971. In the 1970s Atlético also recruited several Argentine employees, signing Rubén Ayala , Panadero Díaz and Ramón "Cacho" Heredia as well as coach Juan Carlos Lorenzo . Lorenzo believed in discipline, caution and disrupting the opponents’ game. Although controversial, his methods proved successful and after winning La Liga in 1973, the club reached the 1974 European Cup Final .  On the way to the final Atlético knocked out Galatasaray , Dinamo Bucureşti , Red Star Belgrade and Celtic .  In the away leg of the semi-final against Celtic, Atlético had Ayala, Díaz, and substitute Quique all sent off during a hard fought encounter in what was reported as one of the worst cases of cynical fouling the tournament has seen. Because of this cynicism they managed a 0–0 draw, which was followed by a 2–0 victory in the return leg with goals from Gárate and Adelardo.  However the final at the Heysel Stadium was a loss for Atlético. Against a Bayern Munich team that included Franz Beckenbauer , Sepp Maier , Paul Breitner , Uli Hoeneß , and Gerd Müller , Atlético played above themselves. Despite missing Ayala, Díaz, and Quique through suspension, they went ahead in extra-time with only seven minutes left. Aragonés scored with a superb, curling free-kick that looked like the winner. However, in the last minute of the game Bayern defender Georg Schwarzenbeck equalized with a stunning 25 yarder that left the Atlético goalkeeper Miguel Reina motionless.  In a replay, back in the Heysel, two days later Bayern won convincingly 4–0, with two goals each from Hoeneß and Müller.  , Shortly after the defeat in the European Cup , Atlético appointed their veteran player Luis Aragonés as coach. Aragonés subsequently served as coach on four separate occasions, from 1974 to 1980, from 1982 to 1987 once again 1991 till 1993 and finally from 2002 to 2003. His first success came quickly as Bayern Munich had refused to participate because of fixture congestion  in the Intercontinental Cup and as runners-up, Atlético were invited instead. Their opponents were Independiente  of Argentina and, after losing the away leg 1–0, they won the return leg 2–0 with goals from Javier Irureta and Rubén Ayala .  Aragonés subsequently led the club to further successes in the Copa del Rey in 1976 and La Liga in 1977 . , During his second spell in charge, Aragonés led the club to a runners-up finish in La Liga and a winner's medal in the Copa del Rey, both in 1985. He received considerable help from Hugo Sánchez who scored 19 league goals and won the Pichichi . Sánchez also scored twice in the cup final as Atlético beat Athletic Bilbao 2–1. However Sánchez only remained at the club for one season before he move across the city to Real Madrid. Despite the loss of Sánchez, Aragonés went on to lead the club to success in the Supercopa de España in 1985 and then guided them to the European Cup Winners' Cup final in 1986 . However Atlético lost their third successive European final, this time 3–0 to Dynamo Kyiv .   , In 1987, controversial politician and businessman Jesús Gil became club president, running the club until his resignation in May 2003.  , Atlético had not won La Liga for ten years and were desperate for league success. Right away, Gil spent heavily, bringing in a number of expensive signings, most notably Portuguese winger Paulo Futre , who had just won the European Cup with F.C. Porto .  All the spending, however, only brought in two consecutive Copa del Rey trophies in 1991 and 1992 as the league title proved elusive. The closest Atlético came to the La Liga trophy was the 1990–91 season when they finished runners-up by 10 points to Johan Cruyff 's FC Barcelona . In the process, Gil developed a ruthless reputation due to the manner in which he ran the club. In pursuit of league success, he hired and fired a number of head coaches, including César Luis Menotti , Ron Atkinson , Javier Clemente , Tomislav Ivić , Francisco Maturana , Alfio Basile as well as club legend Luis Aragonés . , Gil also closed down Atlético's youth academy in 1992,  a move that would prove significant due to 15-year-old academy member Raúl who as a result went across town to achieve worldwide fame at rivals Real Madrid .  The move came as part of the overall Gil-initiated business restructuring of the club; Atlético became a Sociedad Anónima Deportiva , recently introduced special type of legal status in the Spanish corporate law, allowing individuals to purchase and trade club shares. , In the 1994–95 league campaign, Atlético only avoided relegation by a draw on the last day of the season. This prompted another managerial change along with a wholesale squad clearance during the summer 1995 transfer window. Somewhat unexpectedly, in the following 1995–96 season, newly arrived head coach Radomir Antić , with a squad including holdovers Toni , Roberto Solozábal , Delfí Geli , Juan Vizcaíno , José Luis Caminero , Diego Simeone , and Kiko , as well as new acquisitions Milinko Pantić , Luboslav Penev , Santi Denia , and José Francisco Molina finally delivered the much sought-after league title as Atlético won the La Liga / Copa del Rey double.  , The next season, 1996–97, saw the club take part in the Champions League for the first time. With expectations and ambitions raised, the most notable summer transfer singings were striker Juan Esnáider from Real Madrid and Radek Bejbl , who had played for the Czech Republic at Euro 1996 . Playing on two fronts, Atlético fell out of the league title contention early while in the Champions League they were eliminated by AFC Ajax in extra-time in the quarter-finals. Before the 1997–98 season, the heavy spending continued with the signings of Christian Vieri and Juninho . All of the success, however, produced little change in the overall Gil strategy, and although Antić survived three consecutive seasons in charge, he was replaced during summer 1998 by Arrigo Sacchi , who himself only remained in the managerial hot seat for less than six months. Antić then returned briefly in early 1999 only to be replaced by Claudio Ranieri at the end of the season. The 1999–00 season proved disastrous for Atlético. In December 1999, Gil and his board got suspended pending investigation into the misuse of club funds and government-appointed administrator José Manuel Rubí began running Atlético's day-to-day operations. With the removal of club president Jesús Gil and his board, the club floundered and the players put in disastrous performances. Ranieri handed in his resignation with the club in 17th spot out of 20 and heading towards relegation. The return of Antić for the third coaching stint failed to prevent the inevitable. Despite reaching the Copa del Rey final, Atlético were relegated.  , Atlético spent two seasons in the Segunda División , narrowly missing out on promotion in 2001 before winning the Segunda División championship in 2002. It was again Luis Aragonés, in his fourth and last spell as manager of Atlético, who brought them back to the Primera División.  He also coached the team during the next season, and gave Fernando Torres his La Liga debut.  , In 2006 Atlético signed Portuguese midfielders Costinha and Maniche , as well as Argentine forward Sergio Agüero . In July 2007, Fernando Torres left the club for Liverpool for £ 26.5 million,  while Luis García moved in the opposite direction at the same time in an unrelated transfer.  The club also bought Uruguay international and former European Golden Boot / Pichichi winner Diego Forlán for roughly €21 million from Villarreal CF .  Other additions included Portuguese winger Simão from Benfica and winger José Antonio Reyes for €12 million.   , In July 2007, the Atlético board reached an agreement with the City of Madrid to sell the land where their stadium is and move the club to the Olympic Stadium , owned by the city. The new stadium will be owned by the club in 2016. Madrid had applied to host the 2016 Olympic Games , losing out to Rio de Janeiro .  , The 2007–08 season proved to be the most successful season for the club in the past decade. The team reached the round of 32 in the UEFA Cup , where they were defeated by Bolton Wanderers . They also reached the quarter-final round of the Copa del Rey, where they were beaten by eventual champions Valencia CF . More significantly, the team finished the La Liga season in fourth place, qualifying for the Champions League for the first time since the 1996–97 season.  , On 3 February 2009, Javier Aguirre was dismissed from his post as manager after a terrible start to 2009, going without a win in six games. He later claimed this was simply not the case, and that he had been released by mutual termination rather than sacked.  There was a public outrage after his dismissal, many believing he was not the cause of Atlético's problems, specifically player Diego Forlán. He backed his former manager and said that, "Dismissing Javier was the easy way out, but he was not the cause of our problems. The players are to blame because we have not been playing well and we have been committing a lot of errors." This led to the appointment of Abel Resino as Atlético's new manager.  , Atlético's success continued in the latter half of the season when they placed 4th once again in the league table, securing a position in the playoff round of the UEFA Champions League. Striker Diego Forlán was crowned with the Pichichi Trophy and also won the European Golden Shoe , for scoring 32 goals for Atlético that season.  Atlético saw this domestic success as an opportunity to reinforce their squad for the upcoming Champions League season. They departed company with veteran goalkeeper Leo Franco and brought in David de Gea from the youth ranks and signed promising youngster Sergio Asenjo , from Real Valladolid . Atlético also purchased Real Betis defender and Spanish international Juanito on a free transfer. Despite pressure from big clubs to purchase their star players of Agüero and Forlán, Atlético remained committed to keeping their strong attacking base in the hopes for a successful new season. , The 2009–10 Atlético season , however, began poorly with many defeats and goals conceded. On 21 October, Atletico were hammered 4–0 by English club Chelsea in the Champions League group stage.  This defeat led to Atletico's management announcement that manager Abel Resino had to leave.  After failing to sign Danish former footballer Michael Laudrup , Atlético Madrid made it official that the new manager for the rest of the season was Quique Flores .   , With the arrival of Quique Flores as coach in October 2009, Atlético saw a huge change of fortunes. Though they continued to lag somewhat in La Liga during the 2009–10 season, finishing in the ninth position, they managed to get third place in the 2009–10 UEFA Champions League group stage, and subsequently entered the season's Europa League in the round of 32 and won the Europa League, beating English teams Liverpool in the semi-finals and eventually Fulham  in the final held in the HSH Nordbank Arena in Hamburg on 12 May 2010.   Diego Forlán scored twice, the second being an extra-time winner in the 116th minute, as Atlético Madrid won 2–1.  , It was the first time since the 1961–62 European Cup Winners' Cup that Atlético had claimed a European title. They also reached the Copa del Rey Final on 19 May 2010, where they faced Sevilla , but lost 2–0 at the Camp Nou in Barcelona.  By winning the Europa League, they qualified for the 2010 UEFA Super Cup against Inter Milan , winner of the 2009–10 UEFA Champions League , which was played in Monaco on 27 August 2010. Atlético won 2–0 with goals from José Antonio Reyes and Sergio Agüero , Atlético's first win in the Super Cup. , Atlético had a comparatively disappointing 2010–11 season, finishing only seventh in the League and being eliminated in the quarter-finals of the Copa del Rey and the Group Stage of the Europa League . This ultimately led to the departure of manager Quique Flores before the conclusion of the season, who was replaced with ex-Sevilla manager Gregorio Manzano , and who secured the final Europa League place for Atlético. Manzano himself was replaced with Diego Simeone in December 2011 after a poor run of form in La Liga. , Simeone led Atlético to their second Europa League win in the three years since its creation, as they beat Athletic Bilbao 3–0 in the final on 9 May 2012 in Bucharest with Radamel Falcao — scoring two — and Diego Ribas da Cunha the scorers.   Again, by winning the Europa League, they qualified for the 2012 UEFA Super Cup against Chelsea , winner of the previous season's Champions League , which was played in Monaco on 31 August 2012. Atlético won 4–1, including a hat-trick by Falcao in the first half. On 16 May 2013, Atlético beat Real Madrid 2–1 in the Copa del Rey Final , in a tense match where both teams finished with 10 men. This ended a 14-year and 25-match winless streak in the Madrid derby . The 2012–13 season saw the club finish with 3 trophies in a little over a year.   , As the undefeated winners of their Champions League group containing FC Zenit , FC Porto and Austria Wien , and later defeating AC Milan , FC Barcelona and Chelsea in the knock-out rounds, Atlético played their first Champions League final since 1974 , in Lisbon's Estádio da Luz against city rivals Real Madrid.   Atlético took a first-half lead through Diego Godín and survived Real's pressure until the third minute of injury time, when Sergio Ramos scored an equaliser from a corner. The match went into extra time and ended in a 4–1 loss. However, Atlético did have the consolation of winning La Liga for the first time since 1996, with Godín's headed equaliser against Barcelona on the last day of the season, a week before the Champions League final.  , Real Madrid and Atlético Madrid are clubs with contrasting identities and very different fates. While Real Madrid's Santiago Bernabeu Stadium proudly rises on Paseo de la Castellana in the wealthy Chamartín neighbourhood of northern Madrid, Atlético's less glamorous Vicente Calderón Stadium stands way down south, in the working class barrio of Arganzuela . Historically, Real Madrid have long been seen as the establishment club. On the other side, the Rojiblancos were always characterized by a sentimiento de rebeldía , a sense of rebellion, although during the early Francisco Franco years, it was Atlético that was the preferred team of the regime, albeit forcibly. [ citation needed ] They were associated with the military airforce (renamed Atlético Aviación), until the regime's preferences moved towards Real Madrid in the 1950s. , Certainly, the dictatorial state sought to make political capital out of Real Madrid's European Cup trophies at a time when Spain was internationally isolated; "Real Madrid are the best embassy we ever had", said one minister. [ citation needed ] Such perceptions have had an important impact on the city's footballing identities, tapping into the collective consciousness . In this vein, Atlético fans were probably the originators, and are the most frequent singers, of the song, sung to the tune of the Real Madrid anthem, "Hala Madrid, hala Madrid, el equipo del gobierno, la vergüenza del país" , "Go Madrid, go Madrid, the government's team, the country's shame." , Atlético Madrid had recently struggled with big issues in the derby, carrying a fourteen-year winless streak into the 2012–13 season. However, the tide turned on 17 May 2013 when Atletico Madrid beat their city rivals 2–1 in Estadio Santiago Bernabeu to take home the Copa del Rey trophy, and continued on 29 September 2013 when they won a 1–0 victory, again in Estadio Santiago Bernabeu. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , The club play their home games at the 54,990  seat Estadio Vicente Calderón in southern Madrid . Before this, the club played originally at the Ronda de Vallecas until 1923. After the completion of the Estadio Metropolitano de Madrid in 1923, the club moved there until the Vicente Calderón was finished in 1966. , The club plan to move in 2016 to the renovated Estadio La Peineta , (Spanish)  which will be expanded from a 20,000 seat capacity to 73,000 after it was used for Madrid's failed bid to host the 2016 Summer Olympics . The Vicente Calderón will be demolished, and replaced by a waterfront park at the banks of the Manzanares River in Madrid.  The club's training ground is the Ciudad Deportiva de Majadahonda , 20 km west of Madrid. The facility maintains grass and artificial patches as well as a gym. Both the senior and youth squads train here.  , Atlético also runs a sports academy at the Ciudad Deportiva del Nuevo Cerro del Espino in Majadahonda. , Atlético began playing in blue and white, similar to Athletic Bilbao, but soon changed to their traditional red and white stripes by 1911. Many believe the change was influenced because red and white striped tops were the cheapest stripes to make, because the same combination was used to make bed mattresses, and the unused cloth was easily converted into football shirts. The kit has been made by Nike for the past nine years, as the company wants to provide competition against Real Madrid , who have a deal with Adidas . The current shirt sponsor is Azerbaijan , while the AXN cable channel, a division of Sony Pictures Entertainment , has a minor sponsorship on the back of the shorts and Kyocera has a sponsor's logo on the back of the shirt, Finnish gambling monopoly PAF has a sponsorship on the clubs shorts. The shirt sponsorship by Azerbaijan has been condemned by Reporters Without Borders , who satirized it in a campaign visual in which the shirt's vertical stripes become prison bars with the logo "Azerbaijan, Land of Repression".  Atlético Madrid admits its sponsorship deal with Azerbaijan has a political dimension, saying the intention is to "promote the image of Azerbaijan"  In August 2014 the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights wrote to Atlético, calling on it to end the sponsorship by and promotion of Azerbaijan because of Azerbaijan's human rights record, calling it "one of the most repressive countries in the world".  , Previously, the club was sponsored by Columbia Pictures , who would change the shirt sponsor's logo, and occasionally the shirt itself, as they did with the away shirt when Spider-Man 2 was in cinemas.  Because shirts would have to be introduced and removed from shops at a very fast pace to keep up with film releases, Nike decided to not include a sponsor's logo on replica shirts made from 2002 to 2005. , Adelardo holds the club's official appearance record, wearing the Atlético shirt in 551 matches from 1959 to 1976. Luis Aragonés , club legend as both player and coach, holds the record for most goals scored with 173, while Adrián Escudero has the record for most goals in La Liga with 150. Raúl García is the club's current record appearance holder, with 182. Radamel Falcao is the club's most expensive signing at €40 million, and at €60 million also its biggest sale.  Valencia Club de Fútbol ( Spanish:  [baˈlenθja ˈkluβ de ˈfuðbol] , Valencian : València Club de Futbol [vaˈlensia ˈklub de fubˈbɔɫ] ;  also known as Valencia CF , Valencia or Los Che ) are a Spanish football club based in Valencia . They play in La Liga and are one of the most successful and biggest clubs in Spanish football and European football . Valencia have won six La Liga titles, seven Copa del Rey trophies, two Fairs Cups (which was the predecessor to the UEFA Cup ), one UEFA Cup, one UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , and two UEFA Super Cups . They also reached two UEFA Champions League finals in a row, losing to La Liga rivals Real Madrid in 2000 and then to German club Bayern Munich on penalties after a 1–1 draw in 2001 . Valencia were also members of the G-14 group of leading European football clubs. In total, Valencia have reached seven major European finals, winning four of them. , Valencia were founded in 1919 and have played their home games at the 55,000-seater Mestalla since 1923. They were due to move into the new 75,000-seater Nou Mestalla in the north-west of the city in 2013, but the final move date has been postponed while the stadium is still being built. Valencia have a long-standing rivalry with Levante UD , also located in the City of Valencia, and with two other clubs in the Valencian region , Hércules CF and CD Castellón . , Valencia are the third most supported football club in Spain, behind heavyweights Real Madrid and FC Barcelona.  It is also one of the biggest clubs in the world in terms of number of associates (registered paying supporters), with more than 50,000 season ticket holders and another 20,000+ season ticket holders on the waiting list, who can be accommodated in the new 75,000-seater stadium. , Over the years the club has achieved a global reputation for their prolific youth academy or "cantera" . Products of their academy include world-class talent like Raul Albiol , Andres Palop , Miguel Ángel Angulo , David Albelda , Gaizka Mendieta and David Silva . Current stars of the game to have graduated in recent years include Isco , Jordi Alba , Juan Bernat , Paco Alcácer and José Gayà . , , , The club was established on 5 March 1919 and officially approved on 18 March 1919, with Octavio Augusto Milego Díaz as its first president; incidentally, the presidency was decided by a coin toss . The club played its first competitive match away from home on 21 May 1919 against Valencia Gimnástico, and lost the match 1–0. , Valencia CF moved into the Mestalla Stadium in 1923, having played its home matches at the Algirós ground since 7 December 1919. The first match at Mestalla pitted the home side against Castellón Castalia and ended a 0–0 draw. In another match the day after, Valencia won against the same opposition 1–0. Valencia won the Regional Championship in 1923, and was eligible to play in the domestic Copa del Rey cup competition for the first time in its history. , The Spanish Civil War halted the progress of the Valencia team until 1941, when it won the Copa del Rey, beating RCD Espanyol in the final. In the 1941–42 season, the club won its first Spanish La Liga championship title, although winning the Copa del Rey was more reputable than the championship at that time. The club maintained its consistency to capture the league title again in the 1943–44 season, as well as the 1946–47 league edition. , In the 1950s, the club failed to emulate the success of the 1940s, even though it grew as a club. A restructuring of Mestalla resulted in an increase in spectator capacity to 45,000, while the club had a number of Spanish and foreign stars. Players such as Spanish international Antonio Puchades and Dutch forward Faas Wilkes graced the pitch at Mestalla. In the 1952–53 season, the club finished as runners-up in the La Liga behind FC Barcelona. In the following season, the club won its third Copa del Rey, then known as the Copa del Generalísimo. Valencia beat holders FC Barcelona 3-0 in the final in front of over 110,000 spectators at the Estadio Chamartín , then home ground of Real Madrid. The 1950s also saw the retirement of club greats like Salvador Monzó, Vicente Asensi , Amadeo Ibáñez, Antonio Puchades and Pasieguito . , While managing indifferent league form in the early 1960s, the club had its first European success in the form of the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup (the forerunner to the UEFA Cup ). In the 1961–62 season , Valencia beat FC Barcelona in the final. The 1962–63 edition of the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup final pitted Valencia against Croatian club Dinamo Zagreb , which the Valencians also won. Valencia was again present in the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup final in the 1963–64 season, but was defeated 2–1 by Real Zaragoza from Spain. , Former two-time European Footballer of the Year award winner Alfredo Di Stéfano was hired as coach in 1970, and immediately inspired his new club to their fourth La Liga championship and first since 1947. This secured Valencia its first qualification for the prestigious European Cup , contested by the various European domestic champions. Valencia reached the third round of the 1971–72 competition before losing both legs to Hungarian champions Újpesti Dózsa . In 1972 The club also finished runners up both in La Liga and the domestic cup, losing to Real Madrid and Atletico Madrid, respectively. The most notable players of the 1970s era include Austrian midfielder Kurt Jara , forward Johnny Rep of the Netherlands , West German midfielder Rainer Bonhof and Argentinian forward Mario Kempes , who became the La Liga topscorer for two consecutive seasons in 1976–77 and 1977–78. Valencia would go on to win the Copa del Rey again in the 1978–79 season, and also capture the European Cup Winners' Cup the next season, after beating English club Arsenal in the final, with Kempes spearheading Valencia's success in Europe. , In 1982, the club appointed Miljan Miljanić as coach. After a disappointing season, Valencia was in 17th place and faced relegation with seven games left to play. Koldo Aguirre replaced Miljanić as coach, and Valencia barely avoided relegation that year, relying on favorable results from other teams to ensure their own survival. In the 1983–84 and 1984–85 seasons, the club was heavily in debt under the presidency of Vicente Tormo. The club finally hit rock bottom when it was relegated at the end of the 1985–86 season, and riven with internal problems such as unpaid player and staff wages, as well as poor morale. The club was relegated for the first time after 55 years in Spanish top-flight football. , Arturo Tuzón was named the new club president, and he helped steer Valencia back to La Liga. Alfredo Di Stéfano returned as coach in 1986 and Valencia won promotion again following the 1986–87 season. Di Stéfano stayed on as coach until the 1987–88 season, when the team finished in 14th position in La Liga. Bulgarian forward Luboslav Penev joined the club in 1989, as Valencia aimed to consolidate their place in La Liga. Guus Hiddink was appointed as head coach in the 1991–92 season, and the club finished fourth in the League and reached the quarter-finals of the Copa del Rey. In 1992, Valencia CF officially became a Sporting Limited Company, and retained Hiddink as their coach until 1993. , Brazilian coach Carlos Alberto Parreira , fresh from winning the 1994 FIFA World Cup with the Brazilian national team , became manager at Mestalla in 1994. Parreira immediately signed the Spanish goalkeeper Andoni Zubizarreta and the Russian forward Oleg Salenko , as well as Predrag Mijatović , but failed to produce results expected of him. He was replaced by new coach José Manuel Rielo. The club's earlier successes continued to elude it, although it was not short of top coaching staff like Luis Aragonés and Jorge Valdano , as well as foreign star forwards like Brazilian Romário , Claudio López , Ariel Ortega from Argentina and Adrian Ilie from Romania. , Valencia started the 1999–00 season by winning another title, the Spanish Super Cup , beating FC Barcelona . Valencia finished third in the league, four points behind the champions Deportivo de La Coruña and level on points with second placed Barça. But the biggest success was in the UEFA Champions League ; for the first time in its history, Valencia reached the European Cup final. However, in the final played in Paris on 24 May 2000, Real Madrid beat Valencia 3–0. , It was also Claudio López's farewell, as he had agreed to sign for the Italian side Lazio , also leaving was Farinós for Internazionale and Gerard for Barcelona. The notable signings of that summer were John Carew , Rubén Baraja , Roberto Ayala , Vicente Rodríguez , and the Brazilian left back Fábio Aurélio . Also bought that season was Pablo Aimar in January. Baraja, Aimar, Vicente, and Ayala would soon become a staple of Valencia's dominance of the early 2000s in La Liga. , , Valencia started the championship on the right foot and were top of the league after 10 games. After the Christmas break, however, Valencia started to pay for the top demand that such an absorbing competition like the Champions League requires. After passing the two mini-league phases, Héctor Cúper 's team eliminated Arsenal in the quarter-finals and Leeds United in the semi-finals, and got ready to face Bayern Munich in the final; Valencia had reached two European Cup finals in a row. This time, the final was played in Milan at the San Siro on 23 May. Gaizka Mendieta gave Valencia the lead by scoring from the penalty spot right at the start of the match. Goalkeeper Santiago Cañizares then stopped a penalty from Mehmet Scholl , but Stefan Effenberg put Bayern level after the break thanks to another penalty. After extra time, it went to penalties, where a Mauricio Pellegrino miss gave Bayern Champions League glory and dealt Valencia a second-straight defeat in the final. Valencia went on to slip to fifth place in La Liga and out of Champions League competition for the 2001–02 season. The final game of the season meant Valencia only needed a draw at the Camp Nou against Barcelona to seal Champions League qualification. Los Che lost to Barcelona 3–2 at the Nou Camp, with a last minute goal from Rivaldo resulting in Barcelona qualifying for the Champions League while Valencia missed out. , The president, D. Pedro Cortés, resigned due to personal reasons and left the club in July 2001, with the satisfaction of having won one Copa del Rey, one Spanish Super Cup , and having been runners-up in two successive Champions League finals. D. Jaime Ortí replaced him as president and expressed his intention of maintaining the good form that had made the club so admired on the European circuit. There were also some changes in the team and staff. Rafael Benítez , after helping CD Tenerife to promotion, replaced Héctor Cúper after the latter became the new coach at Internazionale in Italy . Among the playing squad, Gaizka Mendieta , Didier Deschamps , Luis Milla , and Zlatko Zahovič left, while Carlos Marchena , Mista , Curro Torres , Francisco Rufete , Gonzalo de los Santos , and Salva Ballesta all arrived. , From 1999 up until the end of the 2004 season, Valencia had one of the their most successful periods in the club's history. With a total of two La Liga titles, one UEFA Cup , one Copa del Rey, and one UEFA Super Cup in those six years, no less than five first class titles and two Champions League finals had been achieved. , In the 2001-2002 season, their first game against fellow title rivals Real Madrid produced a significant and important victory. This was followed by a record of 11 games won consecutively, breaking the existing one set in the 1970–71 season, the season they had last won the La Liga title under Alfredo Di Stéfano . , After a defeat in A Coruña against Deportivo on 9 December 2001, the team had to win against RCD Espanyol in the Estadi Olímpic Lluís Companys to prevent falling further behind the league leaders. Valencia were 2–0 down at half time, but a comeback in the second half saw Valencia win 3–2. , In the second part of the season, Benítez's team suffered a small setback after losing 1–0 in the Santiago Bernabéu to Real Madrid, but they recovered from this setback and achieved four victories and two draws in the following six games against UD Las Palmas , Athletic Bilbao , Deportivo Alavés , Real Zaragoza , and Barça. , , In one of those crucial games that they would come up against Espanyol, Valencia were trailing 1–0 half-time and a man down too with the dismissal of Carboni, but after two goals from Rubén Baraja , Valencia achieved a 2–1 victory. Furthermore, Real Madrid's defeat in Anoeta to Real Sociedad left Valencia with a three-point lead at the top of the table. , The final game of the season was at La Rosaleda to face Málaga CF , on 5 May 2002, a date that has gone down in Valencia’s history. The team shut itself away in Benalmádena , close to the scene of the game, in order to gain focus. An early goal from Roberto Ayala and another close to half-time from Fábio Aurélio assured them their fifth La Liga title, 31 years after their last title win. , The 2002–03 season was a disappointing one for Valencia, as they failed in their attempt to retain the La Liga title and ended up outside of the Champions League spots in fifth, behind Celta de Vigo . They were also knocked out in the quarter-finals of the Champions League by Internazionale on away goals. The 2003–04 season saw Valencia trailing the longtime leaders Real Madrid. In February, after 26 games played, Real Madrid were eight points clear.  However, their form declined in the late season and they lost their last five games of the campaign, allowing Valencia to overtake them and win the title. The club added the UEFA Cup to this success. Valencia had now been La Liga champions twice in three seasons. , In the summer of 2004, coach Rafael Benítez decided to leave the club, stating he had had problems with the club president; he would soon become manager of Liverpool . He was replaced by former Valencia coach Claudio Ranieri , who had recently been sacked by Chelsea . His second reign at the club was a disappointment, however, as Valencia harboured realistic hopes of retaining their La Liga crown but, by February, found themselves in seventh place. Valencia had also been knocked out of the Champions League group phase, with Ranieri being sacked promptly in February. The 2004–05 season ended with Valencia outside of the UEFA Cup spots. , In the summer of 2005, Getafe CF coach Quique Flores was appointed as the new manager of Valencia and ended the season in third place, which in turn gained Valencia a place in the Champions League after a season away from the competition. The 2006–07 season was a season with many difficulties, a season which started with realistic hopes of challenging for La Liga was disrupted with a huge list of injuries to key players and internal arguments between Flores and new Sporting Director Amedeo Carboni . Valencia ended the season in fourth place and were knocked out of the Champions League at the quarter-finals stage by Chelsea 3–2 on aggregate, after knocking out Italian champions Inter in the second round. In the summer of 2007, the internal fight between Flores and Carboni was settled with Carboni being replaced by Ángel Ruiz as the new Sporting Director of Valencia. , On 29 October 2007, the Valencia board of directors fired Flores after a string of disappointing performances and caretaker manager Óscar Rubén Fernández took over on a temporary basis until a full-time manager was found, rumoured to be either Marcello Lippi or José Mourinho . A day later, Dutch manager Ronald Koeman announced he would be leaving PSV to sign for Valencia. But there was still no improvement; in fact, Valencia even went on to drop to the 15th position in the league, just two points above the relegation zone. Although on 16 April 2008, Valencia lifted the Copa del Rey with a 3–1 victory over Getafe at the Vicente Calderón Stadium . This was the club's seventh Copa title. Five days later, one day after a devastating 5–1 league defeat in Bilbao, Valencia fired Koeman and replaced him with Voro , who would guide Valencia as Caretaker Manager for the rest of the season. He went on to win the first game since the sacking of Koeman, beating CA Osasuna 3–0 in his first game in charge. Voro would eventually drag Valencia from the relegation battle to a safe mid-table finish of 10th place, finally ending a disastrous league campaign for Los Che . , Highly rated Unai Emery was announced as the new manager of Valencia on 22 May 2008. The start of the young manager's career looked to be promising, with the club winning four out of its first five games, a surge that saw the team rise to the top position of the La Liga table. Despite looking impressive in Europe, Los Che then hit a poor run of form in the league that saw them dip as low as seventh in the standings. Amid the slump reports emerged of massive internal debt at the club, exceeding 400 million Euros, with reports claiming the players had not been paid in weeks. The team's problems were compounded when they were knocked out of the UEFA Cup by Dynamo Kyiv on away goals. After a run where Valencia took only five points from ten games in La Liga, an announcement was made that the club had secured a loan that would cover the players' expenses until the end of the year. This announcement coincided with an upturn in form, and the club won six of its next eight games to surge back into the critical fourth place Champions' League spot. However, Los Che were then defeated by 4th place rivals Atlético Madrid and Villarreal in two of the last three games of the campaign, and finished 6th in the table, failing to qualify for the Champions League. , No solution had yet been found to address the massive debt Valencia were faced with, and rumours persisted that top talents such as David Villa , Juan Mata , and David Silva could leave the club to help resolve the huge debt. In the 2009–10 season, Valencia returned to the UEFA Champions League for the first time since the 2007–08 season, as they finished comfortably in third in the 2009–10 La Liga . However, in the summer of 2010, due to financial reasons, David Villa and David Silva were sold to Barcelona and Manchester City , respectively, to reduce the club's massive debt. But, despite the loss of two of the club's most important players, the team was able to finish comfortably in third again 2010–11 La Liga for the second season running, although they were eliminated from the Champions League by Bundesliga side Schalke 04 in the Round of 16. In the summer of 2011, then captain Juan Mata was sold to Chelsea to further help Valencia's precarious financial situation. It was announced by President Manuel Llorente that the club's debt had been decreased and that the work on the new stadium would restart as soon as possible, sometime in 2012. During the 2012–13 season Ernesto Valverde was announced as the new manager but after failing to qualify for the Champions League he stepped down as was replaced by Miroslav Đukić . On 5 July 2013, Amadeo Salvo was named new President of the club. Almost a month after Salvo was named president, on 1 August 2013, Valencia sold striker Roberto Soldado to English club Tottenham Hotspur for a reported fee of €30 million. , In May 2014, Singapore businessman Peter Lim was designated by the Fundación Valencia CF as the buyer of 70.4% of the shares owned by the club's foundation.   After months of negotiations between Lim and Bankia (the main creditor of the club) an agreement was reached in August 2014.  , Valencia played its first years at the Algirós stadium but moved to the Mestalla in 1923. In the 1950s, Mestalla was restructured, which resulted in a capacity increase to 45,000 spectators. Today it holds 55,000 seats, making it the fifth largest stadium in Spain. It is also renowned for its steep terracing and for being one of the most intimidating atmospheres in all of Europe to play.  , On 20 May 1923, the Mestalla pitch was inaugurated with a friendly match that brought Valencia CF and Levante UD face to face. It was the beginning of a new era that meant farewell to the old place, Algirós, which will always remain in the memories of the Valencians as first home of the club. A long history has taken place on the Mestalla field since its very beginning, when the Valencia team was not yet in the Primera División . Back then, this stadium could hold 17,000 spectators, and in that time the club started to show its potential in regional championships, which led the managers of that time to carry out the first alterations of Mestalla in 1927. The stadium's total capacity increased to 25,000 before it became severely damaged during the Civil War. Mestalla was used as a concentration camp and junk warehouse. It would only keep its structure, since the rest was a lonely plot of land with no terraces and a stand broken during the war. Once the Valencian pitch was renovated, Mestalla saw how the team managed to bring home their first title, the 1941 Cup. An overwhelming team was playing on the grass of the redesigned Valencian stadium in that decade, team that conquered three League titles and two Cups with the legendary ‘electric forwards’ of Epi, Amadeo, Mundo, Asensi and Guillermo Gorostiza . Those years of sporting success also served as support to recover little by little the Mestalla ground. , During the 1950s, the Valencia ground experienced the deepest change in its whole history. That project resulted in a stadium with a capacity of 45,500 spectators. It was a dream that was destroyed by the flood that flooded Valencia in October 1957 after the overflowing of the Turia River . Nevertheless, Mestalla not only returned to normality, but also some more improvements were added, like artificial light, which was inaugurated during the 1959 Fallas festivities. This was the beginning of a new change for the Mestalla. , During the 1960s, the stadium kept the same appearance, whilst the urban view around it was quickly being transformed. Moreover, Mestalla held its first European matches. Nottingham Forest were the first foreign team to play against Valencia at Mestalla. They played on 15 September 1961 and it was the first clash of a golden age full of continental successes, during which Valencia won the Fairs Cup in 1962 and 1963. , From 1969, the expression "Anem a Mestalla" (Let’s go to Mestalla), so common among the supporters, started to fall into oblivion. The reason was the change of name that meant a big tribute that the club paid to his most symbolic president that lasted for a quarter of a century. Luis Casanova Giner admitted that he was completely overwhelmed by such honour, and the president himself requested in 1994 that his name was again replaced by the name of Mestalla, as it happened. , In 1972, the head office of the club, located in the back of the numbered terraces, was inaugurated. It consisted of an office of avant-garde style with a worth mentioning trophy hall, which held the foundation flag of the club. In the summer of 1973 there was another new thing, the goal seats, which meant the elimination of fourteen rows of standing terraces providing more comfort and an adjustment to the new times. Valencia's management started to consider the possibility of moving Mestalla from its present location to some land in the outskirts of the town, but finally the project was turned down and some years later. , Mestalla held the Spain national football team for the first time in 1925. It was chosen the national team's group venue when Spain staged the 1982 World Cup ,  and at the 1992 Summer Olympics held in Barcelona , all of Spain's matches up to the final were held at Mestalla, as they won Gold.  Mestalla has been the setting for important international matches, has held several Cup finals, has been the home of Levante UD, a venue for the Spanish national team and exile for Castellón and Real Madrid in Europe. , The 2008–09 season was to have been the last season at the Mestalla, with the club moving to their new 75,000-seater stadium Nou Mestalla in time for the 2009–10 season. However, due to the club being in financial crisis,  work on the new stadium has stopped. , On 12 December 2011, club president Manuel Llorente reached an agreement with Spanish banking conglomerate, Bankia, which insured the financial security to resume work on the new stadium. It was estimated that the stadium would be completed in 2 years and in time for the 2014–15 season, however continued debt problems and the eventual stepping down of Llorente in 2012 meant the fate of the new stadium was once again left up in the air as the club continued to look for ways to finance it's completion. [ citation needed ] , On 13 November 2013, Valencia announced an updated redesign by Fenwick Iribarren Architects. The new design reduced the capacity to 61,500. It also reduced the underground car park and downsized the original design's full roof and elaborate façade. There were also redesigns of the interior decoration. No date was given for when construction would restart. , Originally the kit was composed of white shirts, black shorts and socks of the same colour. Through the years, however, these colours have alternated between white and black. The away kit has been shades of orange in recent years while third alternate kits have featured colors from the club crest; yellow, blood orange and blue. , The team have also attracted smaller, local sponsors over the years. One example is Lamiplast , a Valencia-based furniture company. , The club assigned D. Pablo Sanchez Torella who composed the music of Valencia's anthem, named the " Pasodoble ". The hymn was written by Ramon Gimeno Gil, in the Valencian variety of the Catalan . The anthem was premiered and had its official presentation at the 75th anniversary of the club on 21 September 1993. , Valencia and the Balearic Islands were conquered by King James I of Aragon during the first half of the 13th century. After the conquest the king gave them the status of independent kingdoms of whom he was also the king (but they were independent of Aragonese laws and institutions). The arms of Valencia show those of James I. , The unique crowned letters L besides the shield were granted by King Peter the Ceremonious . The reason for the letters was that the city had been loyal twice to the King, hence twice a letter L and a crown for the king. , There are several possible explanations for the bat; one is that bats are simply quite common in the area. The second theory is that on 9 October 1238, when James I was about to enter the city, re-conquering it from the Moors, a bat landed on the top of his flag, and he interpreted it as a good sign. As he conquered the city, the bat was added to the arms. , In May 2013, DC Comics started a legal case against the club claiming that the bat image contravened its trademark of the bat image related to Batman . The image had been used on Valencia's logo since 1919, with Batman first published 20 years later.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Source: Valencia CF official website , LL. = La Liga; CdR = Copa del Rey; SC = Supercopa de España; UCL = UEFA Champions League; UCWC = UEFA Cup Winners' Cup; UEL = UEFA Europa League; UIC = UEFA Intertoto Cup; USC = UEFA Super Cup , Alejandro Scopelli , the first foreigner to win a trophy with Valencia, the 1962 Fairs Cup . , Alfredo Di Stefano had three successful spells as manager of the club. , Claudio Ranieri managed Valencia on two occasions with mixed success. , Héctor Cúper tenure saw the club rise back to prominence in European football. , Rafael Benitez , Valencia's most successful manager, with 2 league titles and 1 UEFA Cup over the period of three years. , Since May 2009, Valencia CF has had a training centre, this is the first multidisciplinary training center for a football club in Spain.  , The Training Centre Foundation Valencia CF "The Academy" offers classroom training, university education  and online training related to the sport.  , Valencia CF is one of the few clubs in Spain that organises a MBA, the Master in International Management in Sport Organizations, currently performs with his Training Centre -The Academy- and the Valencia Catholic University Saint Vincent Martyr .  , On the 90th anniversary of Valencia CF, The Academy opened with the University of Valencia the first university course that studied the history of a football club, Valencia CF is the first football club in Spain, object of study on college.  , Valencia CF also involved in motorsports such as Formula One , Super GT , MotoGP , Moto2 , Moto3 , 250cc and Formula Nippon . Valencia CF was an official partner of Panasonic Toyota Racing in 2003 until 2008 to commemorate Toyota as their shirt sponsor. Valencia CF was also sponsored all Toyota-engined Formula Nippon teams and also Toyota Super GT teams in GT500 and GT300 cars. In 2009, Valencia CF became official partner of former 250cc team Stop And Go Racing Team and later in 2014 Valencia CF also became official partner of Aspar Racing Team in MotoGP , Moto2 and Moto3 classes respectively.  Associazione Calcio Firenze Fiorentina ,   commonly referred to as simply Fiorentina [fjorenˈtiːna] , is a professional Italian football club from Florence , Tuscany. Founded by a merger in 1926 (refounded in 2002 following bankruptcy), Fiorentina have played at the top level of Italian football for the majority of their existence; only four clubs have played in more Serie A seasons. , Fiorentina has won two Italian Championships , in 1955–56 and again in 1968–69 , as well as winning six Coppa Italia trophies and one Italian Super Cup . On the European stage , Fiorentina won the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1960–61 and lost the final one year later. They finished runners-up in the 1956–57 European Cup , losing against Real Madrid , and also came close to winning the 1989–90 UEFA Cup , finishing as runners-up against Juventus . , Since 1931, the club have played at the Stadio Artemio Franchi , which currently has a capacity of 47,282. The stadium has used several names over the years and has undergone several renovations. Fiorentina are known widely by the nickname Viola , a reference to their distinctive purple colours. , , , Associazione Calcio Fiorentina was founded in the autumn of 1926 by local noble and National Fascist Party member Luigi Ridolfi,  who initiated the merger of two older Florentine clubs, CS Firenze and PG Libertas . The aim of the merger was to give Florence a strong club to rival those of the more dominant Italian Football Championship sides of the time from Northwest Italy . Also influential was the cultural revival and rediscovery of Calcio Fiorentino , an ancestor of modern football that was played by members of the Medici family.  , After a rough start and three seasons in lower leagues, Fiorentina reached the Serie A in 1931. That same year saw the opening of the new stadium, originally named Giovanni Berta, after a prominent fascist, but now known as Stadio Artemio Franchi . At the time, the stadium was a masterpiece of engineering, and its inauguration was monumental. To be able to compete with the best teams in Italy, Fiorentina strengthened their team with some new players, notably the Uruguayan Pedro Petrone , nicknamed el Artillero . Despite enjoying a good season and finishing in fourth place, Fiorentina were relegated the following year, although they would return quickly to Serie A. In 1941 they won their first Coppa Italia , but the team were unable to build on their success during the 1940s because of World War II and other troubles. , In 1950, Fiorentina started to achieve consistent top-five finishes in the domestic league. The team consisted of great players such as well-known goalkeeper Giuliano Sarti , Sergio Cervato , Francesco Rosella, Guido Gratton , Giuseppe Chiappella and Aldo Scaramucci but above all, the attacking duo of Brazilian Julinho and Argentinian Miguel Montuori . This team won Fiorentina's first scudetto (Italian championship) in 1955–56 , 12 points ahead of second-place Milan . Milan beat Fiorentina to top spot the following year, but more significantly Fiorentina became the first Italian team to play in a European Cup final, when a disputed penalty led to a 2–0 defeat at the hands of Alfredo Di Stéfano 's Real Madrid . Fiorentina were runners-up again in the three subsequent seasons. In the 1960–61 season the club won the Coppa Italia again and was also successful in Europe, winning the first Cup Winners' Cup against Rangers . , After several years of runner-up finishes, Fiorentina dropped away slightly in the 1960s, bouncing from fourth to sixth place, although the club won the Coppa Italia and the Mitropa Cup in 1966. , While the 1960s did result in some trophies and good Serie A finishes for Fiorentina, nobody believed that the club could challenge for the title. The 1968–69 season started with Milan as frontrunners, but on match day 7, they lost to Bologna and were overtaken by Gigi Riva 's Cagliari . Fiorentina, after an unimpressive start, then moved to the top of the Serie A , but the first half of their season finished with a 2–2 draw against Varese , leaving Cagliari as outright league leader. The second half of the season was a three-way battle between the three contending teams, Milan, Cagliari, and Fiorentina. Milan fell away, instead focusing their efforts on the European Cup , and it seemed that Cagliari would retain top spot. After Cagliari lost against Juventus , however, Fiorentina took over at the top. The team then won all of their remaining matches, beating rivals Juve in Turin on the penultimate matchday to seal their second, and last, national title. In the European Cup competition the following year, Fiorentina had some good results, including a win in the Soviet Union against Dynamo Kyiv , but they were eventually knocked out in the quarter-finals after a 3–0 defeat in Glasgow to Celtic . , Viola players began the 1970s decade with Scudetto sewed on their breast, but the period was not especially fruitful for the team. After a fifth-place finish in 1971, they finished in mid-table almost every year, even flirting with relegation in 1972 and 1978. The Viola did win the Anglo-Italian League Cup in 1974 and won the Coppa Italia again in 1975. The team consisted of young talents like Vincenzo Guerini and Moreno Roggi, who had the misfortune to suffer bad injuries, and above all Giancarlo Antognoni , who would later become an idol to Fiorentina's fans. The young average age of the players led to the team being called Fiorentina Ye-Ye . , In 1980, Fiorentina was bought by Flavio Pontello, who came from a rich house-building family. He quickly changed the team's anthem and logo, leading to some complaints by the fans, but he started to bring in high-quality players such as Francesco Graziani and Eraldo Pecci from Torino ; Daniel Bertoni from Sevilla FC ; Daniele Massaro from Monza ; and a young Pietro Vierchowod from Sampdoria . The team was built around Giancarlo Antognoni, and in 1982 , Fiorentina were involved in an exciting duel with rivals Juventus . After a bad injury to Antognoni, the league title was decided on the final day of the season when Fiorentina were denied a goal against Cagliari and were unable to win. Juventus won the title with a disputed penalty and the rivalry between the two teams erupted. , The following years were strange for Fiorentina, who vacillated between high finishes and relegation battles. Fiorentina also bought two interesting players, El Puntero Ramón Díaz and, most significantly, the young Roberto Baggio . , In 1990, Fiorentina fought to avoid relegation right up until the final day of the season, but did reach the UEFA Cup final, where they again faced Juventus. The Turin team won the trophy, but Fiorentina's tifosi once again had real cause for complaint: the second leg of the final was played in Avellino (Fiorentina's home ground was suspended), a city with a lot of Juventus' fans, and emerging star Roberto Baggio was sold to the rival team on the day of the final. Pontello, suffering from economic difficulties, was selling all the players and was forced to leave the club after serious riots in Florence 's streets. The club was then acquired by the famous filmmaker Mario Cecchi Gori . , The first season under Cecchi Gori's ownership was one of stabilisation, after which the new chairman started to sign some good players like Brian Laudrup , Stefan Effenberg , Francesco Baiano and, most importantly, Gabriel Batistuta , who became an iconic player for the team during the 1990s. In 1993, however, Cecchi Gori died and was succeeded as chairman by his son, Vittorio . Despite a good start to the season, Cecchi Gori fired the coach, Luigi Radice , after a defeat against Atalanta ,  and replaced him with Aldo Agroppi . The results were dreadful: Fiorentina fell into the bottom half of the standings and were relegated on the last day of the season. , Claudio Ranieri was brought in as coach for the 1993–94 season, and that year, Fiorentina dominated Serie B , Italy's second division. Upon their return to Serie A , Ranieri put together a good team centred around new top scorer Batistuta, signing the young talent Rui Costa from Benfica and the new world champion Brazilian defender Márcio Santos . The former became an idol to Fiorentina fans, while the second disappointed and was sold after only a season. The Viola finished the season in 10th place. , The following season, Cecchi Gori bought other important players, namely Stefan Schwarz . The club again proved its mettle in cup competitions, winning the Coppa Italia against Atalanta and finishing joint-third in Serie A. In the summer, Fiorentina became the first non-national champions to win the Supercoppa Italiana , defeating Milan 2–1 at the San Siro . , Fiorentina's 1995–96 season was disappointing in the league, but they did reach the Cup Winners' Cup semi-final by beating Gloria Bistrita , Sparta Prague , and Benfica. The team lost the semi-final to the eventual winner of the competition, FC Barcelona (Away 1–1, Home 0–2). The season's main signings were Luís Oliveira and Andrei Kanchelskis , the latter of whom suffered a lot of injuries. , At the end of the season, Ranieri left Fiorentina for Valencia CF in Spain and Cecchi Gori appointed Alberto Malesani . Fiorentina played well but struggled against smaller teams, although they did manage to qualify for the UEFA Cup . Malesani left Fiorentina after only a season and was succeeded by Giovanni Trapattoni . With Trapattoni's expert guidance and Batistuta's goals, Fiorentina challenged for the title in 1998–99 but finished the season in third, earning them qualification for the Champions League . The following year was disappointing in Serie A, but Viola played some historical matches in the Champions League, beating Arsenal 1–0 at the old Wembley Stadium and Manchester United 2–0 in Florence. They were ultimately eliminated in the second group stage. , At the end of the season, Trapattoni left the club and was replaced by Turkish coach Fatih Terim . More significantly, however, Batistuta was sold to Roma , who eventually won the title the following year. Fiorentina played well in 2000–01 and stayed in the top half of Serie A, despite the resignation of Terim and the arrival of Roberto Mancini . They also won the Coppa Italia for the sixth and last time. , The year 2001 heralded major changes for Fiorentina, as the terrible state of the club's finances was revealed: they were unable to pay wages and had debts of around US$50 million. The club's owner, Vittorio Cecchi Gori, was able to raise some more money, but even this soon proved to be insufficient resources to sustain the club. Fiorentina were relegated at the end of the 2001–02 season and went into judicially controlled administration in June 2002. This form of bankruptcy (sports companies cannot exactly fail in this way in Italy, but they can suffer a similar procedure) meant that the club was refused a place in Serie B for the 2002–03 season, and as a result effectively ceased to exist. , The club was promptly re-established in August 2002 as Associazione Calcio Fiorentina e Florentia Viola with shoe and leather entrepreneur Diego Della Valle as new owner and the club was admitted into Serie C2 , the fourth tier of Italian football. The only player to remain at the club in its new incarnation was Angelo Di Livio , whose commitment to club's cause further endeared him to the fans. Helped by Di Livio and 30-goal striker Christian Riganò , the club won its Serie C2 group with considerable ease, which would normally have led to a promotion to Serie C1 . Due to the bizarre Caso Catania (Catania Case), however, the club skipped Serie C1 and was admitted into Serie B , something that was only made possible by the Italian Football Federation 's decision to resolve the Catania situation by increasing the number of teams in Serie B from 20 to 24 and promoting Fiorentina for "sports merits."  In the 2003 off-season, the club also bought back the right to use the Fiorentina name and the famous shirt design, and re-incorporated itself as ACF Fiorentina . The club finished the 2003–04 season in sixth place and won the playoff against Perugia to return to top-flight football. , In their first season back in Serie A, however, the club struggled to avoid relegation, only securing survival on the last day of the season on head-to-head record against Bologna and Parma . In 2005, Della Valle decided to appoint Pantaleo Corvino as new sports director, followed by the appointment of Cesare Prandelli as head coach in the following season . The club made several signings during the summer transfer market, most notably Luca Toni and Sébastien Frey . This drastic move earned them a fourth-place finish with 74 points and a Champions League qualifying round ticket. Toni scored 31 goals in 38 appearances, the first player to pass the 30-goal mark since Antonio Valentin Angelillo in the 1958–59 season, for which he was awarded the European Golden Boot . On 14 July 2006, however, Fiorentina were relegated to Serie B due to their involvement in the 2006 Serie A match fixing scandal and given a 12-point penalty. The team was reinstated to the Serie A on appeal, but with a 19-point penalty for the 2006–07 season. The team's UEFA Champions League place was also rescinded.  After the start of the season, Fiorentina's penalisation was reduced from 19 points to 15 on appeal to the Italian courts. In spite of this penalty, they managed to secure a place in the UEFA Cup. , Despite Toni's departure to Bayern Munich , Fiorentina had a strong start to the 2007–08 season and were tipped by Italian national team coach Marcello Lippi , among others, as a surprise challenger for the Scudetto ,  and although this form tailed off towards the middle of the season, the Viola managed to qualify for the Champions League. In Europe, the club reached the semi-final of the UEFA Cup , where they were ultimately defeated by Rangers on penalties. The 2008–09 season continued this success, a fourth-place finish assuring Fiorentina's spot in 2010's Champions League playoffs. Their European campaign was also similar to that of the previous run, relegated to the 2008–09 UEFA Cup and were eliminated by AFC Ajax in the end. , In the 2009–10 season , Fiorentina started their domestic campaign strongly before steadily losing momentum and slipped to mid-table positions at the latter half of the season. In Europe, the team proved to be a surprise dark horse: after losing their first away fixture against Olympique Lyonnais , they staged a comeback with a five-match streak by winning all their remaining matches (including defeating Liverpool home and away). The Viola qualified as group champions, but eventually succumbed to Bayern Munich due to the away goals rule . This was controversial due to a mistaken refereeing decision by Tom Henning Øvrebø , who allowed a clearly offside goal for Bayern in the first leg. Bayern eventually finished the tournament as runners-up, making a deep run all the way to the final. The incident called into attention the possible implementation of video replays in football. Despite a good European run and reaching the semi-finals in the Coppa Italia, Fiorentina failed to qualify for Europe. , During this period, on 24 September 2009, Andrea Della Valle resigned from his position as Chairman of Fiorentina, and announced all duties would be temporarily transferred to Mario Cognini, Fiorentina's Vice-President until a permanent position could be filled.  , In June 2010, the Viola bid farewell to long-time manager Prandelli, by then the longest-serving coach in the team's history, who was departing to coach the Italian national team . Catania 's manager Siniša Mihajlović was appointed to replace him. The club spent much of the early 2010–11 Serie A season in last place, but their form improved and Fiorentina finished ninth. Following a 1–0 defeat to Chievo in November 2011, Mihajlović was sacked and replaced by Delio Rossi .  After a brief period of improvements the Viola were again fighting relegation and sporting director Pantaleo Corvino was sacked in early 2012, following a 0–5 home defeat to Juventus . Their bid for survival was kept alive by a number of upset victories away from home, particularly at Roma and Milan . During a home game against Novara , trailing 0–2 within half an hour, manager Rossi decided to substitute midfielder Adem Ljajić early. Ljajić sarcastically applauded him in frustration, but Rossi retaliated by physical assault, an action which resulted in the manager being fired.  Caretaker manager Vincenzo Guerini guided the team away from the relegation zone, and Fiorentina finished the season in thirteenth place. , To engineer a resurrection, the Della Valle family invested heavily in the summer of 2012, buying 17 new players and appointing Vincenzo Montella as head coach.The team started the season well, finishing the calendar year in joint third place. They finished the season in fourth place, qualifying for the 2013–14 UEFA Europa League . , The club lost fan favourite Stevan Jovetic in the 2013-14 summer, selling him to English Premier League club Manchester City FC in a deal worth €30m. They also sold Adem Ljajić to AS Roma and Alessio Cerci to Torino. They used the money to bring in Mario Gomez , Josip Iličić , Ante Rebic among others. season Fiorentina topped their Europa League group, beat Esbjerg fB 4-2 on aggregate in the first knockout round, but then lost to fellow Italian side Juventus 2–1 on aggregate. They finished fourth again in the league, and were Coppa Italia runners-up, losing 3-1 to Napoli in the final. , In the 2014-15 season, Fiorentina once again finished in fourth place in Serie A, qualifying for the 2015-16 Europa League . The club sold Juan Cuadrado to Chelsea FC for €30m and the loan of Mohamed Salah , who was a revelation in the second half of their season. Their 2014-15 Europa League campaign saw them make it all the way to the semi-finals, where they were knocked off by Spanish side Sevilla FC . , In June 2015, Vincenzo Montella was sacked as manager.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , , Fiorentina have had many managers and head coaches throughout their history. Below is a chronological list from the club's foundation in 1926 to the present day.  , The official emblem of the city of Florence , a red fleur-de-lis on a white field, has been pivotal in the all-round symbolism of the club. , Over the course of the club's history, they have had several badge changes, all of which incorporated Florence's fleur-de-lis in some way.  The first one was nothing more than the city's coat of arms, a white shield with the red fleur-de-lis inside. It was soon changed to a very stylised fleur-de-lis, always red, and sometimes even without the white field. The most common symbol, adopted for about twenty years, had been a white lozenge with the flower inside. During the season they were Italian champions, the lozenge disappeared and the flower was overlapped with the scudetto . , The logo introduced by owner Flavio Pontello in 1980 was particularly distinct, consisting of one-half of the city of Florence's emblem and one-half of the letter "F", for Fiorentina. People disliked it when it was introduced, believing it was a commercial decision and, above all, because the symbol bore more of a resemblance to a halberd than a fleur-de-lis.  , Today's logo is a kite shaped double lozenge bordered in gold. The outer lozenge has a purple background with the letters "AC" in white and the letter "F" in red, standing for the club's name. The inner lozenge is white with a gold border and the red fleur-de-lis of Florence.  This logo had been in use from 1992 to 2002, but after the financial crisis and resurrection of the club the new one couldn't use the same logo. Florence's comune instead granted Florentia Viola use of the stylised coat of arms used in other city documents. Diego Della Valle acquired the current logo the following year in a judicial auction for a fee of €2.5 million, making it the most expensive logo in Italian football. , When Fiorentina was founded in 1926, the players wore red and white halved shirts derived from the colour of the city emblem.  The more well-known and highly distinctive purple kit was adopted in 1928 and has been used ever since, giving rise to the nickname La Viola ("The Purple (team)"). Tradition has it that Fiorentina got their purple kit by mistake after an accident washing the old red and white coloured kits in the river. , The away kit has always been predominantly white, sometimes with purple and red elements, sometimes all-white. The shorts had been purple when the home kit was with white shorts. Fiorentina's third kit was first one in the 1995–96 season and it was all-red with purple borders and two lilies on the shoulders. The red shirt has been the most worn 3rd shirt by Fiorentina, although they also wore rare yellow shirts ('97–'98, '99–'00 and '10–'11) and a sterling version, mostly in the Coppa Italia , in 2000–01. , Serie A : , Coppa Italia : , Supercoppa Italiana : , UEFA Champions League : , UEFA Europa League : , UEFA Cup Winners' Cup : , Coppa Grasshoppers , Mitropa Cup , Anglo-Italian League Cup , Copa EuroAmericana , Serie B , Serie C2 (as Florentia Viola ) , This is the UEFA club's coefficient as of 17 April 2015:  , Since re-established in 2002, ACF Fiorentina S.p.A. yet to self-sustain to keep the team in top division as well as in European competitions. In the 2005 financial year, the club made a net loss of €9,159,356, followed by a net loss of €19,519,789. In 2006 ( 2005–06 Serie A and 2006–07 Serie A ), Fiorentina heavily invested on players, made the amortisation of intangible asset (the player contract) had increased from €17.7 million to €24 million.  However the club suffered from 2006 Italian football scandal , meant the club did not qualify for Europe. In 2007 Fiorentina almost break-even, with a net loss of just €3,704,953. In 2007 financial year the TV revenue increased after qualified to 2007–08 UEFA Cup .  Despite qualified to 2008–09 UEFA Champions League , Fiorentina made a net loss of €9,179,484 in 2008 financial year after the increase in TV revenue was outweighed by the increase in wage.  In the 2009 financial year, Fiorentina made a net profit of €4,442,803, largely due to the profit on selling players (€33,631,489 from players such as Felipe Melo , Giampaolo Pazzini and Zdravko Kuzmanovic ; increased from about €3.5 million in 2008). However it also offset by the write-down of selling players (€6,062,545, from players such as Manuel da Costa , Arturo Lupoli and Davide Carcuro ).  , After the club failed to qualify to Europe at the end of 2009–10 Serie A , as well as lack of player profit, Fiorentina turnover was decreased from €140,040,713 in 2009 to just €79,854,928, despite wage bill also fell, la Viola still made a net loss of €9,604,353.   In the 2011 financial year, the turnover slipped to €67,076,953, as the club's lack of capital gains from selling players and 2010 financial year still included the instalments from UEFA for participating 2009–10 UEFA Europa League . Furthermore, the gate income had dropped from €11,070,385 to €7,541,260. The wage bill did not fall much and in reverse the amortisation of transfer fee had sightly increased due to new signing. La Viola had saving in other cost but counter-weighted by huge €11,747,668 write-down for departed players, due to D'Agostino, Frey and Mutu, but the former would counter-weight by co-ownership financial income, which all made the operating cost remained high as worse as last year. Moreover in 2010 the result was boosted by acquiring the asset from subsidiary (related to AC Fiorentina) and the re-valuation of its value in separate balance sheet. If deducting that income (€14,737,855), 2010 financial year was net loss 24,342,208 and 2011 result was worsen €8,131,876 only in separate balance sheet.   , ACF Fiorentina re-capitalized in 2006, for €34.7 million.  In the next year la Viola re-capitalized €20 million  and €20M again in 2008.  In 2009 Fiorentina re-capitalized for €10 million only  and did not had a re-capitalization in 2010 and 2011 financial year.  Eintracht Frankfurt e.V. ( German pronunciation: [ˈʔaɪ̯ntʁaxt ˈfʁaŋkfʊɐt] ) is a German sports club , based in Frankfurt , that is best known for its association football club , currently playing in the Bundesliga , the top tier of the German football league system . , The club was founded in 1899, and have won one German championship , four DFB-Pokals , and one UEFA Cup . Since 1925, their stadium is the Waldstadion, which since 1 July 2005, is called Commerzbank-Arena for sponsorship reasons. , , , The origins of the side go back to a pair of football clubs founded in 1899: Frankfurter Fußball-Club Viktoria von 1899 – regarded as the "original" football side in the club's history – and Frankfurter Fußball-Club Kickers von 1899 . Both clubs were founding members of the new Nordkreis-Liga in 1909. These two teams merged in May 1911 to become Frankfurter Fußball Verein (Kickers-Viktoria) , an instant success, taking three league titles from 1912 to 1914 in the Nordkreis-Liga and qualifying for the Southern German championship in each of those seasons. In turn, Frankfurter FV joined the gymnastics club Frankfurter Turngemeinde von 1861 to form TuS Eintracht Frankfurt von 1861 in 1920. (The German word Eintracht means 'harmony, concord,' and Eintracht X is the equivalent of English X United in the names of sports teams.  ) , At the time, sports in Germany was dominated by nationalistic gymnastics organizations, and under pressure from that sport's governing authority, the gymnasts and footballers went their separate ways again in 1927, as Turngemeinde Eintracht Frankfurt von 1861 and Sportgemeinde Eintracht Frankfurt (FFV) von 1899 . , Through the late 1920s and into the 1930s Eintracht won a handful of local and regional championships, first in the Kreisliga Nordmain , then in the Bezirksliga Main , and Bezirksliga Main-Hessen . After being eliminated from the national level playoffs after quarterfinal losses in 1930 and 1931, they won their way to the final in 1932 where they were beaten 0–2 by Bayern Munich who claimed their first ever German championship. In 1933, German football was re-organized into sixteen Gauligen under the Third Reich and the club played first division football in the Gauliga Südwest , consistently finishing in the upper half of the table and winning their division in 1938. , They picked up where they left off after World War II, playing as a solid side in the first division Oberliga Süd and capturing division titles in 1953 and 1959. Their biggest success came on the heels of that second divisional title as they went on to a 5–3 victory over local rivals Kickers Offenbach to take the 1959 German national title and followed up immediately with an outstanding run in the 1960 European Cup. Eintracht Frankfurt lost 3–7 to Real Madrid in an exciting final widely regarded as one of the best football matches ever played,  which included a hat-trick by Alfredo Di Stéfano . , , The side continued to play good football and earned themselves a place as one of the original sixteen teams selected to play in the Bundesliga , Germany's new professional football league, formed in 1963 . Eintracht played Bundesliga football for thirty-three seasons finishing in the top half of the table more often than not. Their best Bundesliga performances were five third-place finishes: they ended just two points back of champion VfB Stuttgart in 1991–1992 . , They also narrowly avoided relegation on several occasions. In 1984 , they defeated MSV Duisburg 6–1 on aggregate, and in 1989 they beat 1. FC Saarbrücken 4–1 on aggregate, in two-game playoffs. Eintracht finally slipped and were relegated to 2.Bundesliga for the 1996–97 season. At the time that they were sent down along with 1. FC Kaiserslautern , these teams were two of only four sides that had been in the Bundesliga since the league's inaugural season. , It looked as though they would be out again in 1998–1999 , but they pulled through by beating defending champions Kaiserslautern 5–1, while Nuremberg unexpectedly lost at home, to give Eintracht the break they needed to stay up. The following year, in another struggle to avoid relegation, the club was "fined" two points by the DFB (Deutscher Fußball-Bund or German Football Association) for financial misdeeds, but pulled through with a win by a late goal over SSV Ulm on the last day of the season. The club was plagued by financial difficulties again in 2004 before once more being relegated. , Between 1997 and 2005, Eintracht has bounced between the top two divisions. , The 2010–11 season ended with the club's fourth Bundesliga relegation. After setting a new record for most points in the first half of the season the club struggled after the winter. After seven games without scoring a goal, coach Skibbe was doubted. Despite winning the next game Skibbe was sacked and Christoph Daum took over his place.  The change wasn't successful however, Eintracht only achieved three draws out of the last seven games and got relegated on the 34th match day.  , One year later Eintracht Frankfurt beat Alemannia Aachen 3–0 on the 32nd match day of the season 2011–12 and qualified again for the Bundesliga.  , In 2014–15 Eintracht had the 16th highest attendance in Europe, ahead of such prominent clubs as Celtic , Inter and Paris Saint-Germain . , The club has enjoyed considerable success in competition outside the Bundesliga. Eintracht famously lost the European Cup final to Real Madrid on 18 May 1960 at Hampden Park 7–3 in front of 127,621 spectators. It is one of the most talked about European matches of all time, with Di Stéfano scoring 3 and Puskás scoring the other 4 for Real. , In 1967 they won the Intertoto Cup beating Inter Bratislava in the final. , They won the German Cup in 1974 , 1975 , 1981 , and 1988 , and took the UEFA Cup over another German team – Borussia Mönchengladbach – in 1980 . More recently, Eintracht were the losing finalists in the 2006 German Cup. Their opponents in the final, Bayern Munich , Bundesliga champions that year, qualified to participate in the Champions League . As a result Eintracht received the Cup winner's place in the UEFA Cup where they advanced to the group stage. , The club crest derives from the coat of arms of Frankfurt am Main which is a reference to the one-headed imperial eagle of the 13th century. , The crest has evolved slowly over time, showing little significant change until 1980 when a stylized eagle in black and white was chosen to represent the team. In the centennial year 1999 the club board decided to re-adopt a more traditional eagle crest. Since 2006 Eintracht has had a living mascot, the golden eagle Attila from the nearby Hanau Zoo, who is very popular among supporters. , The official club colours of red, black, and white have their origins in the colours of the founding clubs Frankfurter FC Viktoria and Frankfurter FC Kickers , which sported red and white and black and white respectively. Red and white are the colours of the city coat of arms, and black and white the colours of Prussia . When the clubs merged, officials decided to adopt the colours of both sides. Since local rival Kickers Offenbach sport the colours red and white, Eintracht avoids playing in such a kit, preferring to play in black and red, or in black and white. , The club is nicknamed Die Adler (The Eagles), which obviously derives from their crest. A nickname still popular among supporters is SGE , taken from the club's old official name S port g emeinde E intracht (Frankfurt), roughly translated meaning Sports community United . , The nickname Launische Diva (Moody Diva) was heard most often in the early 1990s when the club would easily defeat top teams only to surprisingly lose to lesser clubs. This nickname was also held to refer to the what was regarded as the dubious work of some club chairmen, including for example, the failure to record the transfer fee of Hungarian star player Lajos Détári on club books. The current reign of Heribert Bruchhagen appears to have left these practises to the past. , (+ as Frankfurter FV) , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , World Cup 1954 – Germany , World Cup 1974 – Germany , World Cup 1990 – Germany , World Cup 1954 – Germany , World Cup 1990 – Germany , World Cup 2014 – Germany , Summer Olympics 1996 – Nigeria , Summer Olympics 1988 – Germany , The ground was inaugurated as Waldstadion (Forest Stadium) in 1925 with the German championship final match between FSV Frankfurt vs. Nuremberg . The facility was renovated for the FIFA World Cup 2006 in Germany. For Bundesliga fixtures the maximum capacity is 51,500 as on the East Stand next to the visitor's terrace some spaces are held free for security purposes. , Though the media usually refer to the ground by the official name, Commerzbank-Arena, the Eintracht faithful stick with the name Waldstadion . ,  , Eintracht Frankfurt U23 was the reserve team of Eintracht Frankfurt. The team played as U23 (Under 23) to emphasize the character of the team as a link between youth academy and pro team and competed until 2013–14 in the regular league system in the 4th tier, the Regionalliga Süd , until the club board decided to dissolve the team. , The 2011–12 season saw Eintracht play local rival FSV Frankfurt in a league match for the first time in almost 50 years. The last league game between the two had been played on 27 January 1962, then in the Oberliga Süd . For the first of the two matches, FSV's home game on 21 August 2011, the decision was made to move to Eintracht's stadium as FSV's Bornheimer Hang only holds less than 11,000 spectators.  Eintracht won 0–4. The second match on 18 February 2012 ended in another victory for Eintracht, a 6–1 rout. , The sports club Eintracht Frankfurt e.V. is made up of sixteen sections: , The most famous athlete of Eintracht Frankfurt is Betty Heidler , the hammer thrower world champion of 2007 . Other Eintracht athletes include the 2008 Olympians Andrea Bunjes , Ariane Friedrich , Kamghe Gaba and Kathrin Klaas . , The clubs rugby union section twice reached the final of the German rugby union championship , in 1940 and 1965.  , Within the football section, the sports club directly manages only the youth system and the reserve team. The professional footballers are managed as a separate limited corporation, Eintracht Frankfurt Fußball- AG , which is a subsidiary of the parent club.  FK Partizan ( Serbian : Фудбалски клуб Партизан (ФК Партизан) / Fudbalski klub Partizan , English : Partizan Football Club (Partizan FC) ; commonly known as Partizan Belgrade , Serbian : Партизан Београд / Partizan Beograd or simply Partizan ) is a Serbian professional football club based in Belgrade . It is the most successful club in Serbia and forms a major part of the Partizan Sports Association .  The club plays in the Serbian SuperLiga and has spent its entire history in the top tier of Yugoslav and Serbian football having won a total of thirty-nine trophies, including a record of twenty-six national championships, twelve national cups, one national super-cup as well as one Mitropa Cup ,  and finished in the Yugoslav league all-time table as 2nd.  , Partizan was founded by young high officers of the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA) in 1945 in Belgrade, as part of the Yugoslav Sports Association Partizan.  Their home ground is the Partizan Stadium in Belgrade, where they have played since 1949.  Partizan holds records such as playing in the first European Champions Cup match in 1955 ,  as well as becoming the first Balkan and Eastern European football club to reach the European Champions Cup final, when it did so in 1966 .  Partizan is the only Serbian club to make it to the UEFA Champions League group stage. , The club has a long-standing rivalry with Red Star Belgrade . Matches between these two clubs are known as the eternal derby and rate as one of the greatest cross-town clashes in the world.  In September 2009, the British newspaper Daily Mail ranked the Red Star-Partizan derby 4th among the ten greatest football rivalries of all time.  FK Partizan is the second-most popular football club in Serbia.  The club is also very popular in Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina , especially in the Bosnian Serb entity of Republika Srpska .  Partizan also have many supporters in all the other former- Yugoslav republics and in the Serbian and Yugoslav diasporas.  , , , Most of us, young generals who played and loved football, we gathered and agreed to start a football club. We did not argue over what the name would be. We were Partisans , it was most natural to call our club Partizan. , FK Partizan was founded on 4 October 1945, as a football section of the Yugoslav Sports Association Partizan .  It was named in honor of the Yugoslav Partisans , the Communist military formation that fought during World War II .  The club was formed and initially managed by a group of high officers of the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA),  notably Svetozar Vukmanović , Peko Dapčević , Ratko Vujović and Koča Popović .  In 1946, Partizan joined the newly formed Yugoslav First League and Cup . The club had a successful start, winning the double in their debut season .  A second championship title followed in 1949 .  Until then, Partizan played its home games on the old BSK stadium, when its own stadium was built on the same site and named JNA Stadium .  In 1950, the club evolved from a football section of the Army into an independent club under the umbrella organization JSD Partizan.  The club's first president became Ratko Vujović .  In 1953, the remaining formal connections between Partizan and the JNA finally ceased.  During the 1950s, the club had a long break without winning a championship, winning only cup titles in 1952, 1954 and 1957 .  On 4 September 1955, Partizan participated in the first-ever Champions Cup match, playing against Portuguese club Sporting Clube de Portugal in Lisbon.  , After twelve years of playing in blue-red kits, the club adopted the black-white colors in 1957.   This change of the club's image and appearance was followed by changes in its squad. The number of young players, products of Partizan's youth school, soon emerged into one of the best generations of footballers that Partizan ever had.  Managers Illés Spitz , Virgil Popescu , Florijan Matekalo and Stjepan Bobek monitored and guided their development. The decision to rely mostly on talented youngsters scouted from all over the country quickly produced results as Partizan captured three consecutive championship titles, in 1961 ,  1962 and 1963 ,   capturing the first title hat-trick in the history of the Yugoslav First League.  In 1965 , the team won its fourth league title in five years,  with its only loss in title races being in 1964 , when the league was won by Red Star Belgrade, whom Partizan developed a rivalry with in the 1960s.  The 1965–66 European Cup campaign was the crown of this generation's achievements.  After defeating English side Manchester United 2–1 on aggregate, FK Partizan, led by manager Abdulah Gegić , achieved the greatest success in the history of the club by playing in the 1966 European Cup Final against Real Madrid from Spain.  By participating in this match, Partizan became the first club from the Balkans and Eastern Europe to reach a European Cup final.  The match was played on 11 May 1966 in the Heysel Stadium in Brussels.  Partizan led by one goal until the 70th minute, but lost to the Spaniards 2–1 in the end.  After the finals, Partizan fell into a crisis that lasted for several years.  , In 1976, Partizan won its seventh championship trophy, after a decade-long hiatus.  An eighth title followed in 1978 .  That same year, led by manager Ante Mladinić , Partizan won its first European trophy, the Mitropa Cup , defeating Hungarian side FC Honvéd in the finals with a score of 1–0.  The next season turned out to be the worst in Partizan's history, with the club finishing 15th in the league, barely avoiding relegation with a 4–2 victory against Budućnost Podgorica in its last fixture.  Subsequently, in the 1979–80 season , Partizan finished 13th in the league.  In the following two seasons, Partizan progressed on the table by finishing in 8th and 6th place.   , Partizan became Yugoslav league-champion in 1983 ,  in large part due to the performances of the young Dragan Mance .  He helped Partizan win the league by scoring 15 goals, and immediately became a fan favourite.  He also led the club in their 1984–85 UEFA Cup second round tie against Queens Park Rangers . The English club won the first leg 6–2, but Partizan advanced after a 4–0 return victory.  A goal which Mance scored against in that fixture is considered to be one of the most remarkable goals in the history of FK Partizan.  That match in which Mance scored was voted 70th of the 100 greatest matches in the history of football, in a poll organized by Eurosport in 2009.  On 3 September 1985, Mance died in an automobile accident on the Novi Sad-Belgrade highway . He was only 22 years old, and at the peak of his popularity.  Even today, Mance is considered to be the one of the greatest players to have ever played for Partizan by the fans of the club.  In his honour, the street next to Partizan's stadium in Belgrade carries his name.  , In 1986 , Partizan won its 10th championship title with a 4–0 win over Željezničar , due to a better goal difference than second-placed rivals Red Star Belgrade.  However, the Football Association of Yugoslavia ruled that the entire last round of fixtures had to be replayed after accusations that certain results had been fixed. Partizan refused to replay its match, after which the game was awarded 3–0 to Željezničar, and the title was given to Red Star Belgrade. After a sequence of appeals and lawsuits which eventually led to the Yugoslav Constitutional Court, the original final table of the 1985–86 season, with Partizan as champions, was officially recognized in 1987. Also, the points deduction from 1986–87 season was annulled, and the title was given to Partizan, who headed the table without the deduction.  , During Yugoslavia's final years, Partizan underwent significant organizational changes. In 1989, former goalkeeper Ivan Ćurković became club president while Mirko Marjanović became the president of Partizan's executive board.  The club only won the 1989 national cup , 32 years after its last victory in that competition.  The last trophy which the club won before the breakup of Yugoslavia was the 1989 Yugoslav Super Cup, the first and the only one that was organized.  , After the collapse of Yugoslavia, Partizan won two titles in a row, in 1993 and 1994 .   Next three championships, Partizan won in 1996 , 1997 and 1999 .    The club also won three national cups in 1992, 1994 and 1998.  The key man for all these trophies was manager Ljubiša Tumbaković , who became the most successful manager in the history of the club.  Tumbaković guided Partizan to another cup win in 2001,  and the championship trophy in 2002 .  His successor, Lothar Matthäus ,  led the club to its first UEFA Champions League participation after eliminating Newcastle United in qualification,  and the championship victory in 2003 .  However, playing in Europe reflected in the championship race and Partizan lost the title.  New coach Vladimir Vermezović won the championship in 2005 , and managed to take the team to the round-of-16 of the 2004–05 UEFA Cup .  Later on, Partizan was eliminated by CSKA Moscow , the eventual winners of the competition.  Next season, after being eliminated early from European competition, Vermezović resigned in October 2005.  , Three years after Matthäus, Partizan signed another German coach, Jürgen Röber .  He left the club after a few months due to poor results in domestic competitions. Afterwards, the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro separated, and the newly founded Serbian SuperLiga was established in August 2006.  The club appointed Miodrag Ješić for the second time.  Under him, Partizan finished 2nd in the SuperLiga and managed to qualify for the 2006–07 UEFA Cup group stage.  Later on Ješić was sacked and replaced by Miroslav Đukić .  , In January 2008, former Partizan player Slaviša Jokanović was appointed as the club's new head coach.  In the 2007–08 season, Jokanović has won the championship and cup.  The next year, Partizan defended their double from the 2008 for the first time in the club's history.   In Europe, UEFA expelled Partizan from the UEFA Cup due to crowd trouble at their away qualifying match in Mostar .  In the next two seasons, after relegations from the Champions League, Partizan qualified two times in a row for the second-most prestigious European club football tournament. The club played in the 2008–09 UEFA Cup and 2009–10 UEFA Europa League .   , Under new manager Aleksandar Stanojević ,  Partizan won the championship in 2010 and the double in 2011 .   In UEFA competitions, Partizan qualified for the 2010–11 UEFA Champions League after beating Belgian side RSC Anderlecht .  In the following season, Partizan failed to qualify neither for Champions League nor Europa League and after the half-season, Stanojević was released.  Partizan then signed former Chelsea manager Avram Grant ,  who won a fifth consecutive league title.  Grant resigned after five months and former Partizan manager Vladimir Vermezović returned to Belgrade in May 2012.  Under his guidance, Partizan qualified for the 2012–13 UEFA Europa League group stage.  Because of poor results in the second part of national championship, Vermezović was dismissed and replaced by Vuk Rašović .  Following the victory in the eternal derby and in pre-last round, Rašović secured a sixth consecutive title, a total of 25th in history of the club.  As a champion of the Serbian SuperLiga for 2012–13 season, Partizan managed to equalize a national record by the number of championship titles won.  , In October 1945, Partizan adopted as their first crest a blue circle with a yellow bordered red five-pointed star in the middle, which symbolized communism ,  and contained the abbreviation JA ( Jugoslovenska Armija , The Yugoslav Army) inside it. Later on, the central circle became white with a red five-pointed star in it. It was surrounded by a larger blue circle in which the words "the Yugoslav Army" were written, while both circles were bordered by a yellow circle with a green wreath over it. At the bottom of the emblem was a shield with red and white lines, and on the top were five torches, each representing one of the five nations of Yugoslavia ( Serbs , Croats , Slovenes , Macedonians and Montenegrins ). This was a clear reference to the National Emblem of Yugoslavia .  , In the early 1950s, Partizan was separated from the Yugoslav Army and for the first time the team's name was written in the Cyrillic and Latin alphabets. The inscription of the Yugoslav Army was removed from the crest, along with the green wreath, and was replaced by the words Sportsko Društvo ( Sports association ). Partizan used this emblem until 1958, although it changed its equipment colors of blue and red to black and white a year before. The crest was also changed to be completely black and white, and Sportsko Društvo was amended into Jugoslovensko Sportsko Društvo (Yugoslav Sports Association), while the five red torches and the five-pointed star remained.  It was slightly redesigned after 1963 by adding a sixth torch to reflect the change of the official state emblem, which now included six torches representing six Yugoslav republics,  instead of the previous five representing the nations. The crest remained unchanged until the breakup of Yugoslavia . , When Yugoslavia ceased to exist in 1992, instead of Jugoslovensko Sportsko Društvo , the word Fudbalski klub ( Football Club ) were inserted and this crest was left to this day. The author of the crest was academic painter Branko Šotra.  In the 2007–08 season , Partizan won its 20th national championship and added two stars above their crest, symbolizing the twenty gained titles.   However, there is an alternative crest, which Partizan supporters call the "shovel" but it is never used in official matches.  , I'm responsible because Partizan adopted black and white colors. I suggested change of shirts on behalf of the whole team, to club's general secretary Artur Takač . It all happened while we were on tour in South America, and when we played a friendly match against Juventus in 1957. We got as gift two sets of their jerseys, as they were delighted with our game. All the players were thrilled with the quality and color of the new uniforms, and they asked me to wear them all the time, which happened at the end, and Partizan's colors has remained black and white to this day. , For most of its history, Partizan has played in black and white striped jerseys, but during its earliest days it used entirely dark red , blue or white jerseys.  In 1950, Partizan briefly had an all-white shirt with a blue diagonal stripe, besides an all blue shirt.  From 1952, the first red-blue striped and quartered jerseys appeared.  In 1957, the club was on tour in South America and after a friendly game with Juventus F.C. , a president of the Italian club Umberto Agnelli , donated them a two sets of black and white jerseys.  Since then, Partizan has played mainly in black and white striped shirts,  with black or white shorts and socks.  But there were exceptions, like in 1974, when they wore a black and white hooped shirt, and 1982, when they have played in a plain white jerseys with a thick black stripe across them.  In 1990 , the red and blue jersey returned after more than 30 years, in an away match against Hibernians F.C. during the UEFA Cup campaign. All this time, the away shirts have been mostly either all white or occasionally red-blue striped, but in recent years an all-black strip is usually used.  , The stadium's name is Partizan Stadium, although it was known as "JNA Stadium" ( Stadion Jugoslovenska Narodna Armija , Stadium of the Yugoslav People's Army ) for most of its history, and even today, a lot of football fans in all countries of the former-Yugoslavia call it by its old name. Partizan supporters sometimes call it "Fudbalski Hram" (The Temple of Football).  , The stadium is situated in the Savski venac municipality, in central Belgrade. Designed by architect Mika Janković, the ground was built on the site of BSK Stadium .  It was officially opened on Day of Yugoslav People's Army on 22 December 1951.  The first match ever played was between Yugoslavia and France on 9 October 1949.  The stadium had a capacity of 55,000 until it was renovated in 1998 following UEFA security regulations.  This led to the conversion of the stadium into an all-seater reducing the capacity to 32,710,  currently the second largest stadium in Serbia, behind the Red Star Stadium .  , The ground has also been used for a variety of other sport events since 1949. It was used from the mid-fifties until 1987 as the final point of yearly festivities called the Youth Day .  Also, it was the host of the 1962 European Athletics Championships , a place for various concerts and it hosted many times the Yugoslav Cup and Serbian Cup final.   , The Partizan youth school , called Youth School Belin – Lazarević – Nadoveza , was founded in the 1950s and named after former Partizan players Bruno Belin , Čedomir Lazarević and Branko Nadoveza.  The club is well known for its dedicated work with youngsters.  Its training philosophy is not only the development of football players, but also to care of their growth and personality forming, while also teaching the sporting spirit.  There are around 400 youngsters classified by age categories.  There are six age groups, four compete at the level of the Football Association of Serbia , the U17, U16, U15 and U14, while the U13 and U12 compete at the level of the Football Association of Belgrade.  Below U12 level there are no official competitions, but players do play in tournaments and friendly matches.  , Partizan is the club with the most league titles and cup wins in youth competition in Serbia.  The youth teams also participate in numerous tournaments around Europe and also organize an U17 international tournament with participation of some of the top European clubs.  Partizan also organizes football camps for children in Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina , Slovenia , Australia   and the United States.   Many of the best youth-academy players move directly to the Partizan senior side, or to the affiliate club Teleoptik Zemun .  , All of Partizan's youth categories train at the Partizan sports complex named SC Partizan-Teleoptik , along with Partizan's seniors and the players of Teleoptik.  Partizan has won several awards for its youth work, including "Best European Youth Work" in 2006,  and the club's youth school has been declared the second-best in Europe after that of Ajax Amsterdam .  Partizan's academy has produced numerous professional football players or Yugoslav and Serbian internationals. Notable players from the recent past include: Miralem Sulejmani , Stevan Jovetić , Adem Ljajić , Matija Nastasić , Lazar Marković , Miloš Jojić , Zoran Tošić and Aleksandar Mitrović . , According to a 2008 domestic poll, Partizan is the second-most popular football club in Serbia, behind Red Star Belgrade.  The club has a large fanbase in Montenegro,  Bosnia and Herzegovina (especially in the Bosnian Serb entity of Republika Srpska ),  and Croatia . They also have many supporters in all other former-Yugoslav republics like Macedonia ,  Slovenia ,  and among the Serbian diaspora , especially in Germany,  Austria ,  Switzerland ,  Sweden ,  Canada, the United States and Australia. , The organized supporters of Partizan are called Grobari (The Gravediggers or Undertakers ),  which were formed in 1970 and situated mainly on the south stand of the Partizan Stadium; therefore they are also known as Grobari Jug ( The Undertakers South ).  Even some ordinary Partizan fans often refer to themselves as "Grobari." The nickname itself was given by their sporting rivals Delije of Red Star Belgrade, referring to the club's mostly black colors which were similar to the official uniforms of cemetery undertakers.  The other theory is that the name comes from a misinterpretation of the name of the street on which Partizan's stadium is located – Humska ( humka roughly translates as grave or entombment ),  when actually the street was named after Serbian medieval land of Hum , nowadays part of Herzegovina and South Dalmatia . The Grobari support all clubs in the Partizan Sports Association and in the course of time they have become recognizable by their noisy and constant cheering as well as their devotion and loyalty to the club.  The basis of their cheering is referred in the Serbian fan scene as the principle of "srce, ruke, glas" (heart, hands, voice) or "glas i dlan" (voice and palms),  along with songs in distinctive style.  The Grobari as a whole maintain a close friendship with the organized supporters of PAOK Thessaloniki , Steaua București , CSKA Sofia and CSKA Moscow ,   which started originally because of the two supporters' common Orthodox faith and similar founding backgrounds. It has been suggested that 'Many ultras took part in the armed conflicts and carry their scars today, translating the tribal nature of the Yugoslav wars to their clubs and ultras groups.'  , Partizan's biggest rivalry is with Red Star Belgrade .  The matches between these rivals have been labeled as the Eternal derby ( Serbian : Вечити дерби, Večiti derbi) or Belgrade derby.  The rivalry started immediately after the creation of the two clubs. Red Star was founded for Yugoslav youth and Partizan as the football section of the Yugoslav People's Army.  The rivalry is also intensified by the fact that both clubs have their stadiums situated only a few hundred meters apart.  The Eternal derby is particularly noted for the passion of both supporters groups. The stands of both teams feature fireworks, coloured confetti, flags, rolls of paper, torches, smoke, drums, giant posters and choreographies, used to create visual grandeur and apply psychological pressure on the visiting teams, hence the slogan, "Welcome to Hellgrade".  Some fans use sometimes also trumpets, similar to the supporters in South America. This creates for the region a typical and distinctive Balkan Brass Band atmosphere. Both sets of supporters sing passionate songs against their rivals, and the stadiums are known to bounce with the simultaneous jumping of the fans. The duel is regarded by Bleacher Report as one of the greatest football rivalries in the world.  Along with the Old Firm , the Rome derby and the Istanbul derby , the Belgrade derby is known as one of the most intense rivalries in European football.  In 2009, the Daily Mail ranked the Eternal Derby 4th among the 10 greatest football rivalries of all time.  The largest attendance at a derby match was about 100,000 spectators (90,142 with paid tickets) on 7 November 1976 at the Red Star Stadium .  The biggest win was 7–1 for Partizan on 6 December 1953 at the Partizan Stadium   but the club with the most victories is Red Star Belgrade . , Overall, Partizan have won 40 official titles including 26 national championships, 12 national cups, 1 national super cup and 1 Mitropa Cup .  , The club has earned the honour of being allowed to wear two Golden Stars for Sport Excellence on its shirts representing its league victories, the tenth of which was achieved during the 1985–86 season and the twentieth in the 2007–08 season.  , National Championships – 26 , National Cups – 12 , Yugoslav Supercup – 1 , Other Tournaments , Partizan's record-holder by number of appearances is player Momčilo Vukotić . He played 791 games in two turns, from 1968 and 1978 and from 1979 and 1984.  The goal-scoring record-holder is striker Stjepan Bobek , with 425 goals.  Over 150 footballers from Partizan have played for the Yugoslav and Serbian national football teams .  Former Partizan player Savo Milošević played 102 matches for the Yugoslav and Serbia national football team, a national record shared with Dejan Stanković .  Stjepan Bobek held the Yugoslavian national team record with 38 goals,  with second place being shared by Savo Milošević and Milan Galić , who scored 37 goals each.  , FK Partizan are record-holders of the Yugoslav First League in terms of points acquired during a campaign, with 107, and are the only league-winning team to have gone undefeated during one season (in 2005 and 2010 ). Partizan became the first champion of Yugoslavia in 1947 , the first Yugoslav Cup winner, also in 1947, and therefore also the first double winner in the country. They won three consecutive championship titles, in 1961, 1962 and 1963, the first title hat-trick in the history of the Yugoslav First League.  Partizan won the most national championships since the dissolution of Yugoslavia, being a champion thirteen times. They are the only Serbian club ever, since the first nationwide domestic football competition in 1923 , to win six consecutive national titles, not leaving the throne since the 2007–08 season .  , The club holds records such as playing in the first European Champions Cup match in 1955 ,  becoming the first Balkan and Eastern European club to play in the European Champions Cup final in 1966 ,  and becoming the first club from Serbia to take part in the UEFA Champions League group stages in 2003 .  The club's greatest victory in European competitions was 8–0 against Welsh champions F.C. Rhyl in qualifying for the 2009–10 UEFA Champions League .  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , For recent transfers, see List of Serbian football transfers summer 2015 . , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , For details of former players, see: List of FK Partizan players , and Category:FK Partizan players . , As of 23 June 2015, the staff includes:  , As of 23 June 2015  , Below is a list of Partizan managers from 1945 until the present day.  , The full list of FK Partizan's presidents is given below.  , FK Partizan operates as a sports association, as part of Partizan Sports Association , which includes 26 clubs in different sports, but it has complete independence regarding organisation, management, finances, material goods and facilities. In 2010, the club's non-consolidated operating revenues amounted to EUR 21.2 million and EBITDA amounted to EUR 3.5 million.  , *Only European and Domestic Cup matches  Panathinaikos F.C. ( Greek : ΠΑΕ Παναθηναϊκός Α.Ο. ), also known simply as Panathinaikos , or with its full name Panathinaikos A.O. ( Greek : Παναθηναϊκός Αθλητικός Όμιλος , transliterated "Panathinaikos Athlitikos Omilos", Panathenaic Athletic Club ) are a Greek professional football club based in the city of Athens . Panathinaikos can literally be translated as "Panathenaic", which means "of all Athens". The name "Panathinaikos" was inspired by the ancient work of Isocrates Panathenaicus , where the orator praise the Athenians for their democratic education and their military superiority, which use it for benefit of all Greeks.  , Today a part of Panathinaikos A.O. , they are the oldest active football club in Greece . Founded in 1908 as "Podosfairikos Omilos Athinon" ( Football Club of Athens ), they play in the Super League Greece are one of the most successful clubs in Greek football and is one of three clubs which have never been relegated from the top division. They have won 20 Greek Championships , 18 Greek Cups , 5 Greek Super Cups and 8 Doubles . Other titles include 6 Panhellenic Championships (before 1927). Panathinaikos is also the most successful Greek club in terms of achievements in the European competitions. It is the only Greek team that has reached the European Cup (later changed to UEFA Champions League ) final in 1971, and also the semi-finals twice, in 1985 and 1996. It is also the only Greek team that has played for the Intercontinental Cup (1971). Furthermore, they have reached the quarter-finals of UEFA Champions League two more times (in 1992 and 2002) and also the quarter-finals of UEFA Cup twice (in 1988 and 2003). They have won also once the Balkans Cup in 1977. , Since the 50's the club maintains one of the oldest and most successful Academy in Greece producing and preparing new footballers for the first team and feeding also the Greek national football team . Panathinaikos F.C. became professional and independent in 1979. They have played their home games in the Apostolos Nikolaidis Stadium – which is considered as their traditional home ground – and the Athens Olympic Stadium . , According to the vast majority of researches and polls, it is the second most popular football team in Greece.         and the most popular in greater Athens and the region of Attica .  The club has million of fans inside Greece and millions of others in the Greek communities all over the world. Panathinaikos FC currently is the only supporter-owned football club in Greece. , They hold a long-term rivalry with Olympiacos and matches between the two teams are referred to as " Derby of the eternal enemies ".  , , , According to the official history of the club, Panathinaikos was founded by Giorgos Kalafatis on 3 February 1908, when he and 40 other athletes decided to break away from Panellinios Gymnastikos Syllogos following the club's decision to discontinue its football team.  The name of the new club was "Podosferikos Omilos Athinon" ( Football Club of Athens ). It was founded with the aim of spreading and making more known this new sport ( football ) to the Athenian and Greek public in general. Also, Kalafatis' intension was to create a team for all Athens, a team for the capital. First president was selected to be Alexandros Kalafatis , brother of Giorgos. The colours of the team were red and white and its home ground was in Patission Street .  Oxford University athlete John Cyril Campbell was brought in as coach. It was the first time that a foreigner was appointed as the coach of a Greek team.  Konstantinos Tsiklitiras , the great Greek athlete of the early 20th century, played as goalkeeper for the new team. , In 1910, after a dispute among a number of board members, Kalafatis with most of the players - also followed by Campbell - decided to pull out of POA and secured a new ground in Amerikis Square. Subsequently, the name of the club changed to Panellinios Podosferikos Omilos ("Panhellenic Football Club") and its colours to green and white. By 1914, Campbell had returned to England but the club was already at the top of Greek football with players such as Michalis Papazoglou , Michalis Rokkos and Loukas Panourgias . , In 1918, the team adopted the trifolium ( shamrock ) as its emblem, as proposed by Michalis Papazoglou .  In 1921 and 1922, the Athens-Piraeus FCA organized the first two post- WWI championships, in both of which PPO was declared champion. By that stage, the club had outgrown both the grounds in Patission Street and Amerikis Square, due mainly to its expansion in other sports, and began to look at vacant land in the area of Perivola on Alexandras Avenue as its potential new ground.  After long discussions with the Municipality of Athens , an agreement was finally reached and in 1922 Leoforos ("Avenue" in Greek) was granted to the club.  , The move to a permanent home ground also heralded another – final – name change, to Panathinaikos Athlitikos Omilos (PAO) , " Panathenaic Athletic Club ", on 15 March 1924,  from now on a multi-sport club . However, the decision was already taken by 1922. , In 1926, the Hellenic Football Federation was founded and the first Greek Championship under its authority took place in 1927. , Panathinaikos won undefeated the Championship of 1929–1930 under the guidance of József Künsztler and Angelos Messaris as the team's star player.  Other notable players of this Belle Époque period of the team were Antonis Migiakis , Diomidis Symeonidis , Mimis Pierrakos , Stefanos Pierrakos and more. They thrashed rivals Olympiacos 8–2, a result that still remains the biggest win either team has achieved against its rival, with Messaris scoring three goals.  The team won also Aris 1-4 in Thessaloniki . Messaris, who scored again three goals, became a hero and chant for the fans. , In 1931, a serious disagreement between leading board member Apostolos Nikolaidis and Messaris,  which lasted two years, damaged the club and led to a counterproductive period. In the meantime, the HFF Greek Cup had commenced in 1932. The last bright moment for the Greens before World War II was winning the Cup for the first time in 1940 against Aris (3–1). , In 1940, with the break out of the Greco-Italian War , many players of the club joined the Hellenic Army . Mimis Pierrakos was killed during the war (later during the 50's his bones were transferred from Albania back to Athens). During the Axis Occupation of Greece (1941–44) many players of the team became members of PEAN resistance organization.,  while Michalis Papazoglou had a leading role in the resistance group of Jerzy Iwanow-Szajnowicz . , After this long crisis period, Panathinaikos had to wait until 1949 to win again a Greek Championship under the guidance of the Austrian coach Johann Strnad . The same year Vangelis Panakis and Kostas Linoxilakis came to the club and quickly became the new star players. Panathinaikos was again champion for the 1952–53 Panhellenic Championship . , Until 1959, the team had also won seven of the last eight Athens Championships , the regional championships organised in Greece. In 1959, Mimis Domazos , the emblematic captain of the team, made his first appearance with Panathinaikos and the same year took place the first season under the new system of Alpha Ethniki ( 1959–60 Alpha Ethniki ). Panathinaikos was the champion team. , During the next years Panathinaikos were again champions in 1961 , 1962 , 1964 , 1965 , 1969 and 1970 . Moreover, the team won 2 more Greek Cups in 1967 and 1969 . Also, during these years, a long process of rejuvenation took place in the club. Notable players retired, such as Panakis, Linoxilakis, Takis Loukanidis and Andreas Papaemmanouil , and the team had to count on young players like Domazos, Antonis Antoniadis , Anthimos Kapsis , Kostas Eleftherakis and Takis Ikonomopoulos . , Stjepan Bobek was the main contributor to this process. In 1963 he came as coach, he changed the playing style of the team (to 4-3-3) and created a new team based on young players (the "Bobek's rejuvenation"). Under his guidance, Panathinaikos won the Championship of 1964 without a loss, making them the only team that has won the Greek Championship (with its modern system) undefeated.  Notable players of the team included Panakis, Domazos, Takis Ikonomopoulos , Totis Filakouris , Frangiskos Sourpis and Aristidis Kamaras . , With the establishment of the Greek military regime , the president of the club Loukas Panourgias was forced out of the presidency. The contract of Stjepan Bobek was canceled by the State, while Apostolos Nikolaidis , the old player, manager and official of the club, went on trial.  , In 1967, the great Béla Guttmann came as coach, but he soon left and ex-player Lakis Petropoulos was appointed. Under his guidance Panathinaikos won the championships of 1969 (with a Double) and 1970. , In 1971, under the guidance of Ferenc Puskás , Panathinaikos were 1970–71 European Cup finalists, the first and only Greek team until today, losing 2–0 to Ajax at Wembley Stadium .  In the road to the final they eliminated Jeunesse Esch , Slovan Bratislava , Everton and Red Star Belgrade .   Notable players included the former captain Mimis Domazos , Anthimos Kapsis , Aristidis Kamaras , Kostas Eleftherakis , Totis Filakouris and the goalkeepers Takis Ikonomopoulos and Vasilis Konstantinou . Antonis Antoniadis was the top scorer in the competition scoring 10 goals. , In the same year, Panathinaikos played for the 1971 Intercontinental Cup (due to the refusal of Ajax to participate), where they lost to Nacional (1–1 in Greece, 2–1 in Uruguay).  Totis Filakouris was the scorer for the Greek club. , During the last amateur years of Greek football, the Trifolium won one more Championship in 1972. Antonis Antoniadis was again top scorer with 39 goals (also second in Europe). His record remains until today in the Greek league. , With the collapse of the militay regime , Apostolos Nikolaidis became again active for the club and was appointed honorary President of Panathinaikos. In 1975 one of the greatest coaches of his era, the Brazilian Aymoré Moreira , who mainly worked in Brazil ( World Cup Champion with Brazil national football team in 1962), was appointed. After one and a half year and not good results he was replaced by Kazimierz Górski . With Górski, Panathinaikos won the Double in 1977. Another important moment for the club the same year was winning the Balkans Cup of 1977.  Notable foreign players who played for the team during the late '70s include Juan Ramón Verón , Araquem de Melo and Óscar Marcelino Álvarez . , In 1979, Greek football turned professional. The Vardinogiannis family, who are mostly known for their oil refining , oil exploration , media and entertainment enterprises, purchased PAO's football department and Giorgos Vardinogiannis became president.  Panathinaikos were one of the first Greek clubs that formed a women's team in 1980 but that department is currently inactive. , The transformation period lasted a few years but in 1982 they won their first professional era trophy, the Greek Cup , and during the 1980s they would go on winning two championships ( 1984 , 1986 ), four more Greek Cups ( 1984 , 1986 - with a 4-0 against Olympiakos in the final –, 1988 , 1989 ) and the Greek Super Cup in 1988. The star of the team during these years was Dimitris Saravakos , while other players included Nikos Sarganis , Spiros Livathinos , Velimir Zajec , Juan Ramón Rocha , Christos Dimopoulos and Giannis Kyrastas . , In the 1984–85 season, Panathinaikos with coach Jacek Gmoch and stars Dimitris Saravakos , Velimir Zajec , Juan Ramón Rocha and Ioannis Kyrastas made a run in Europe, eliminating Feyenoord , Linfield and Göteborg to reach the semi-finals of the European Cup where they were knocked out by Liverpool F.C. .  , In 1987–88, they made it also to the quarter-finals of the UEFA Cup , eliminating Juventus , Auxerre and Budapest Honvéd . Saravakos was top scorer of the competition. , The 1990s were an even more successful period for the club, both nationally and internationally. Four Greek championships ( 1990 , 1991 , 1995 , 1996 ), 4 Greek Cups ( 1991 , 1993 , 1994 , 1995 ) and 2 Greek Super Cups (1993, 1994) were awarded to the club. , In the 1991–92 season, Panathinaikos reached also the last 8 of the European Cup and took part in the first ever European tournament to have a group stage. , In 1995–96 with Juan Ramon Rocha as coach and key players Krzysztof Warzycha , Józef Wandzik , Stratos Apostolakis , Georgios Georgiadis , Dimitris Markos , Giannis Kalitzakis , Giorgos Donis and Juan Jose Borrelli , Panathinaikos reached the semi-finals of the UEFA Champions League eliminating FC Nantes , Porto , Aalborg and Legia Warsaw . , They faced Ajax , recording a 0–1 first leg away victory. However, they suffered a 0–3 defeat on the second leg and were thus denied entry to the final once more. , In the summer of 2000, president Giorgos Vardinogiannis resigned from his duties with complaints for the refereeing situation in Greece and passed his shares to his nephew Giannis Vardinogiannis , who changed the style of the club's management. Angelos Anastasiadis was initially appointed coach of the team and later the ex-player Giannis Kyrastas . , With the arrival of coach Sergio Markarian , Panathinaikos reached the quarter-finals of the 2001–02 UEFA Champions League , being eliminated by Barcelona . Panathinaikos had passed the first group stage as first against Arsenal F.C. , RCD Mallorca and FC Schalke 04 , and the second group stage as second against Real Madrid C.F. , FC Porto and AC Sparta Prague . , The next season (2002–03), they lost the Championship in the last two games by arch-rivals Olympiacos. In Europe, they were eliminated in the UEFA Cup quarter-finals by eventual winners Porto . They had knocked out Fenerbahçe S.K. (with an impressive 4-1 in Athens), FC Slovan Liberec and R.S.C. Anderlecht . Notable players of this team included Takis Fyssas , Giorgos Karagounis , Antonis Nikopolidis , Angelos Basinas , Nikos Lyberopoulos , Michalis Konstantinou , Giourkas Seitaridis , Sotirios Kyrgiakos , Paulo Sousa , Goran Vlaovic , Rene Henriksen , Joonas Kolkka , Jan Michaelsen and Emmanuel Olisadebe , considered by the fans one of the best teams in the club's history. , Under the guidance of Itzhak Shum , Panathinaikos managed to win the Championship in 2004. They won also the Cup beating Olympiakos 3-1 in the final, making the Double . New players like Ezequiel González , Lucian Sanmartean and Markus Münch had signed the summer before. In the Champions League they came third in the group stage facing Manchester United , PSV Eindhoven and Rangers . However, Shum was unexpectedly fired early in the next season (2004–05) and Zdeněk Ščasný succeeded him on the bench. Panathinaikos finished second in the Championship, while in the Champions League they came again third in the group stage facing Rosenborg BK , VfB Stuttgart and Arsenal . They continued to UEFA Cup where they were eliminated by Sevilla FC . , In 2005, major changes were made in the team's roster. Players like Angelos Basinas and Michalis Konstantinou departed, while others like Flávio Conceição , Igor Biscan and Andreas Ivanschitz arrived. Ščasný gave his seat to Alberto Malesani . At the start of the 2006–07 season, Malesani left the team and he was replaced by Hans Backe , who left only three months after his appointment. Víctor Muñoz then came. For the 2007–08 season, Panathinaikos hired José Peseiro . , On 22 April 2008 and under pressure from the fan base, main shareholder Giannis Vardinogiannis gave a press conference in which he announced the decision of his family to reduce their share in the club to 50% – after 30 years of full ownership – through a €80 million increase of the company's capital stock. After the negotiations and the share capital increase, the Vardinogiannis family would hold 56% of the club, the amateur Club 10% and the other shareholders 34% (with main investors Andreas Vgenopoulos , Pavlos Giannakopoulos , Adamantios Polemis and Nikos Pateras ). Nikos Pateras was selected to be the new President of the club. , Following the major changes in 2008, Panathinaikos hired Henk ten Cate as coach and bought many expensive players such as Gilberto Silva from Arsenal and Gabriel from Fluminense . In the 2008–09 season, the Greens proved that they could hold their weight in the Champions League by reaching the last 16. However, they disappointed in the Greek Championship finishing 3rd in the regular season, though they managed to come 2nd overall after the playoff mini-league. , The 2009–10 season was successful for Panathinaikos. During the summer transfer period the club bought Djibril Cissé from Marseille , Kostas Katsouranis from Benfica , Sebastian Leto from Liverpool and various other players spending more than €35 million. Henk ten Cate left in December to be replaced by Nikos Nioplias . The team managed to reach the last 16 of the Europa League and win both the Greek Championship and the Greek Cup (beating Aris FC in the final). , In 2011, due to financial problems and management disagreements, Panathinaikos sold Djibril Cissé for €5,800,000 to S.S. Lazio and first-choice goalkeeper Alexandros Tzorvas to Palermo in order to reduce the budget.   New players came like Quincy Owusu-Abeyie , Toche , Vitolo and Zeca . The club also changed their president and chose Dimitris Gontikas to be the new chairman. Panathinaikos failed to qualify to the Group Stage of Champions League as they were knocked out by Odense BK (4–5 on aggregate). , Panathinaikos' downfall continued as a result of the serious riots in the Panathinaikos-Olympiacos derby of 18 March 2012. The entire board quit and Panathinaikos remained headless for about 2 months.  The owner of Skai TV , Giannis Alafouzos , however devised a plan to take Vardinogiannis' shares (54.7%) and make them available to fans around Greece so that everyone could contribute a desired amount, so that Panathinaikos could overcome the crisis.  His plan seemed to be working as a new 20-member board was elected with Dimitris Gontikas at the president's chair again,  however it was yet to be seen how the fans would respond to Panathinaikos' call for help. , On 2 July 2012, the Panathenaic Alliance finally opened to the public so that everyone could be a member and contribute a desired amount in return for privileges. After a few weeks of operation, 8.606 members had signed up, some of which were current or former Panathinaikos players (Jean-Alain Boumsong, Ninis, Gilberto Silva, Cisse and others). , 18 July 2012 marked a historical day in Panathinaikos history, as Giannis Vardinogiannis gave his shares - 54.7% of Panathinaikos F.C. - to the Panathinaikos Alliance, thereby allowing Panathinaikos to have a fresh start with their own fans at the steering wheel, who through elections (amongst the members of the Alliance) they compose the Board of Directors and elect the Club's President. First president was elected Giannis Alafouzos . , The first season with the Panathinaikos Alliance at the helm was nothing short of abysmal for the club. While still enduring financial troubles, Panathinaikos finished 6th in the championship and failed to qualify for the European competitions for the first time in 16 years. , For the 2013-14 season the membership had risen up to 9.305 members. Starting the 2013-2014 season both fans and journalists were very skeptical of Panathinaikos' chances of a successful season and a lot of people expected the team to get relegated. In May 2013 Yannis Anastasiou was appointed manager. Anastasiou planned a team based on players from the Panathinaikos Youth Academies joined by experienced foreign players looking to revive their careers. Despite the early skepticism Panathinaikos' fans supported the team through the rough start and the season turned out to be a massive success considering the dire financial situation of the club and the young and inexperienced squad. Panathinaikos finished 4th in the regular season and 2nd after the playoffs (meaning they qualified for the Champions League ), with Marcus Berg first scorer of the team. Panathinaikos also won the Greek Cup after a 4-1 win over PAOK . , 1908 , Older , Current , The colours that were first used by the team in 1908 were red and white. The first symbol of the club was a red association football ball of the era. In 1911, the colours changed to green and white. In 1918, Michalis Papazoglou proposed the shamrock as emblem of Panathinaikos, symbol of harmony and good luck.  He used to have it sewn on his shirt since he was competing for a club in his native Chalcedon , Constantinople .  Papazoglou was possibly inspired by Billy Sherring , an Irish Canadian athlete who had won the Athens 1906 Olympic marathon (1906 Intercalated Games) wearing a white outfit with a big green shamrock on the chest.    , The team's jersey colours are green and white (green for health and nature and white for virtue ), although the white sometimes is omitted, used as trim or as an alternative. During the first years after the establishment of green as Panathinaikos' primary colour, players were wearing green shirts, white shorts and green socks. During the '30s, the appearance with the characteristic horizontal strips was established. This motive was used also in the next decades as primary or second choice. Since then, the uniform style has changed many times but green has always remained the team's primary colour. , Also, during the '70s, a shade of blue was chosen as a second choice for the team. The same colour was used again as secondary since then. , First , Alternative , Panathinaikos' traditional home ground since the early 1920s is the Apostolos Nikolaidis Stadium , the oldest active football stadium in Greece, in the Ampelokipoi district of central Athens . The stadium is located on Alexandras Avenue and is most commonly referred to as Leoforos (i.e., Avenue). It is considered one of the most historic stadiums in Greece, as it was used by the Greek national football team as home ground for many years (most recently for the UEFA Euro 2004 qualifying matches) and even by Panathinaikos' biggest rivals, AEK and Olympiacos , on various occasions. , Panathinaikos left Leoforos in 1984 to play in the newly built Athens Olympic Stadium . In 2000, then club president Angelos Filippidis announced a return to the Apostolos Nikolaidis Stadium, following a €7 million renovation. Capacity was reduced from 25,000 to 16,620, new dressing rooms were built and modular stand roofing was added in compliance with UEFA requirements, but in 2004 stricter standards were announced and the Apostolos Nikolaidis Stadium would need further expansion were it to remain suitable for UEFA-sanctioned matches. This was precluded by local zoning regulations and the team had to return to the Olympic Stadium once more until a new stadium, the proposed Votanikos Arena , was built. The Leoforos ground was due for demolition. , On 27 January 2007, the board of Panathinaikos decided to reuse the Apostolos Nikolaidis Stadium for the team's 2007–08 Greek Super League and UEFA Cup home games. Also, the club officials decided to install new lawn, new seats and upgrade the press conference room and the restrooms. , As of October 2013 and due to the club's and the country's financial troubles, the construction of the Votanikos Arena has stopped and consequently the plans for the demolition of the Apostolos Nikolaidis Stadium have been put on hold. After another five-year spell at the Olympic Stadium, the team has returned to its traditional home ground once again. , The current President of the club, Giannis Alafouzos , declared his intension for another renovation of the stadium and the capacity increase, while the Panathinaikos Movement made its propositions for a total reconstruction. , Paiania has been the training ground of Panathinaikos since 1981. The same year the Academy of the club was reorganized, becoming one of the best in the country and feeding the first team with notable players (Karagounis, Basinas, Kyrgiakos, Ninis etc.), such as the national teams. In 2013, was decided the move of the club from the previous training center of Paiania to a new one, owned by the team. Located in the area of Koropi , Georgios Kalafatis Sports Center became the new training ground and Academy base of Panathinaikos. , Until 1979, football in Greece was still in amateur level. The team, such as the other departments of Panathinaikos A.O. , depended on the financial support of the club's members, while the President (responsible for all athletic departments) was elected by the Board members. In 1979 the Greek football turned professional and the Vardinogiannis family purchased the football department. Giorgos Vardinogiannis became the new president.  Vardinogiannis family were the owners of the club the next decades. , On 22 April 2008 and under pressure from the fan base, main shareholder Giannis Vardinogiannis gave a press conference in which he announced the decision of his family to reduce their share in the club to 50% – after 30 years of full ownership – through a €80 million increase of the company's capital stock. After the negotiations and the share capital increase, the Vardinogiannis family would hold 56% of the club, the amateur Club 10% (as before) and the new shareholders 34%. Pavlos Giannakopoulos , Nikos Pateras , Adamantios Polemis and Andreas Vgenopoulos were the main investors, plus other minor shareholders. Nikos Pateras was selected to be the new president. , In 2011, due to financial problems and management disagreements, the direction decided to reduce the budget and sell many players. In 2012, the owner of Skai TV , Giannis Alafouzos , devised a plan to take Vardinogiannis' shares (54.7%) and make them available to fans around Greece so that everyone could contribute, so that Panathinaikos could overcome the crisis.  His intension was to create a new, for the Greek athletic standards, supporter-owned football club . On 2 July 2012, the Panathenaic Alliance finally opened to the public so that everyone could be a member and contribute a desired amount in return for privileges. A few days later Giannis Vardinogiannis gave his shares - 54.7% of Panathinaikos F.C. - to the Alliance, while the other shareholders maintained their percentage. The members of the Alliance through elections compose the Board of Directors and elect the Club's President. First president was elected Giannis Alafouzos . In 2013, was decided the move of the team from the previous training center of Paiania to a new one, owned by the club. Located in the area of Koropi , Georgios Kalafatis Sports Center became the new training ground and academy base of Panathinaikos. , For the 2013-14 season the membership had risen up to 9.305 members contributing a total of €2.580.836. , Current sponsorships: , According to the most recent polls, Panathinaikos is for just 2% difference the 2nd most popular football club in Greece, with nearly 27% of the population supporting them, and the most popular in greater Athens and the region of Attica .  They have also a large fanbase in all Greek prefectures (central Greece, Peloponnese, Epirus, Thessaly, Aegean islands, Macedonia and Crete), in Cyprus and in the Greek diaspora . Their main rivals are Olympiacos (29%), while AEK and PAOK share 11-12% of the fans. They have the largest fanbase among high educated people and the Greek upper class, while they are popular among middle and lower class also. , Panathinaikos supporters hold both records of the most season tickets sales (31.091 in 2010) and highest average attendance for a unique season (44.942 in 1985-86 season) in the history of Greek football. , The main organized supporters of Panathinaikos are known as Gate 13 (est. 1966), the oldest fan association in Greece, which consists of around 80 clubs alongside Greece and Cyprus.  Gate 13 style of supporting includes the use of green fireworks, large and small green flags, displaying of banners and especially the creation of colorful and large choreographies, noisy and constant cheering and other supporters stuff. Gate 13 has over the years become a part of the club by affecting club decisions and by following the club on all occasions. Gate 13 share close relations with Ultras Rapid Wien .,  , Panathenaic Alliance, a collective organisation of the fan base, is the major shareholder of the football club, making it currently the only supporter-owned football club in Greece. The members of the Alliance through elections compose the Board of Directors and elect the Club's President. , Mimis Domazos holds the record for Panathinaikos F.C. appearances, having played 502 first-team matches between 1959 and 1980.  Striker Krzysztof Warzycha comes second, having played 390 times.  The record for a goalkeeper is held by Takis Ikonomopoulos , with 303 appearances.  , Krzysztof Warzycha is the club's top goalscorer with 288 goals in all competitions between 1989 and 2004  having surpassed Antonis Antoniadis ' total of 180 in January 1998.  , Panathinaikos record home attendance is 74.493, for a Greek League match against AEK F.C. in 1986 at the Olympic Stadium.  The record attendance for a Panathinaikos match at the Apostolos Nikolaidis Stadium is from 1967 when 29.665 spectators watched the Cup Winners Cup game between Panathinaikos and FC Bayern Munich .  , Panathinaikos is the only club in the history of Greek football to finish a top-flight campaign unbeaten. This happened in the 1963–64 season.  , League top scorers , Most league appearances , One-Club players , Best seasons , Notable wins , Biggest wins , 1 Competitions for amateur footballers, won by Panathinaikos' U-21 team (or Panathinaikos Amateurs, as it was called at that time). , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. ,   Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , József Künsztler , head coach (1929-39) , Loukas Panourgias , player and later president of the club (1962–66) , Stjepan Bobek , head coach (1963–67) , Ferenc Puskás , manager of Panathinaikos from 1970 to 1974 , Apostolos Nikolaidis , player, manager and later president of the club (1974–79) , *only in pre-HFF championships  Redirect to:  Association Sportive de Saint-Étienne Loire ( French pronunciation: ​ [asɔsjasjɔ̃ spɔrtɪv də sɛ̃t‿etjɛn lwaʁ] ; commonly known as AS Saint-Étienne , ASSE , or simply Saint-Étienne ) is a French association football club based in Saint-Étienne . The club was founded in 1919 and currently plays in Ligue 1 , the top division of French football . Saint-Étienne plays its home matches at the Stade Geoffroy-Guichard located within the city. The team is managed by Christophe Galtier and captained by Loïc Perrin , who started his career at the club in 1996.  , Saint-Étienne is, arguably, the most successful club in French football history having won ten Ligue 1 titles, six Coupe de France titles, a Coupe de la Ligue title and five Trophée des Champions (the French Super Cup). The club's ten league titles are the most professional league titles won by a French club, while the six cup victories places the club third among most Coupe de France titles. Saint-Étienne has also won the second division championship on three occasions. The club achieved most of its honours in the 1960s and 1970s when the club was led by managers Jean Snella , Albert Batteux , and Robert Herbin . Saint-Étienne's primary rivals are Olympique Lyonnais , who are based in nearby Lyon . The two teams annually contest the Derby Rhône-Alpes . In 2009, the club added a female section to the football club. , Saint-Étienne have produced several notable players, mostly during its dynastic run in the 1960s and 70s, who have gone on to have coaching careers domestically and internationally. The club unearthed players and managers such as Aimé Jacquet , Jacques Santini , Laurent Blanc and Michel Platini . Each player went on to have a managerial stint with the France national team . Jacquet coached the team to victory at the 1998 FIFA World Cup , while Santini won the 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup . Blanc was the manager of the national team for two years between 2010 and 2012. , , , AS Saint-Étienne was founded in 1919 by employees of the Saint-Étienne -based grocery store chain Groupe Casino under the name Amicale des Employés de la Société des Magasins Casino (ASC) . The club adopted green as its primary color mainly due to it being the principal color of Casino. In 1920, due to the French Football Federation prohibiting the use of trademarks in sports club, the club dropped Casino from its name and changed its name to simply Amical Sporting Club to retain the ASC acronym. In 1927, Pierre Guichard took over as president of the club and, after merging with local club Stade Forézien Universitaire , changed its name to Association sportive Stéphanoise . , In July 1930, the National Council of the French Football Federation voted 128–20 in support of professionalism in French football. In 1933, Stéphanoise turned professional and changed its name to its current version. The club was inserted into the second division and became inaugural members of the league after finishing runner-up in the South Group. Saint-Étienne remained in Division 2 for four more seasons before earning promotion to Division 1 for the 1938–39 season under the leadership of the Scot William Duckworth . The team's debut appearance in the first division was, however, short-lived due to the onset of World War II. Saint-Étienne returned to the first division after the war under the Austrian-born Frenchman Ignace Tax and surprise many by finishing runner-up to Lille in the first season after the war. The club failed to improve upon that finish in following seasons under Tax and, ahead of the 1950–51 season , was let go and replaced by former Saint-Étienne player Jean Snella . , Under Snella, Saint-Étienne achieved its first honour after winning the Coupe Charles Drago in 1955. Two seasons later , the club won its first domestic league title. Led by goalkeeper Claude Abbes , defender Robert Herbin , as well as midfielders René Ferrier and Kees Rijvers , and striker Georges Peyroche , Saint-Étienne won the league by four points over Lens . In 1958, Saint-Étienne won the Coupe Drago for the second time. After the following season, in which the club finished 6th, Snella departed the club. He was replaced by René Vernier. In the team's first season under Vernier, Saint-Étienne finished 12th, the club's worst finish since finishing 11th eight seasons ago. In the following season, François Wicart joined the coaching staff. In 1961, Roger Rocher became president of the club and quickly became one of the club's chief investors. After two seasons under Wicart, Saint-Étienne were relegated after finishing 17th in the 1961–62 season . Wicart did, however, lead the club to its first Coupe de France title in 1962, alongside co-manager Henri Guérin with the team defeating FC Nancy 1–0 in the final . He also led the club back to Division 1 after one season in the second division, but after the season, Wicart was replaced by Snella, who returned as manager after a successful stint in Switzerland with Servette . , Snella's first season back , Saint-Étienne won its second league title and, two seasons later , captured its third. Snella's third and final title with the club coincided with the arrival of Georges Bereta , Bernard Bosquier , Gérard Farison , and Hervé Revelli to the team. After the season, Snella returned to Servette and former Stade Reims manager Albert Batteux replaced him. In Batteux's first season in 1967, Saint-Étienne captured the double after winning the league and the Coupe de France. In the next season, Batteux won the league and, in the ensuing season, won the double again. The club's fast rise into French football led to a high-level of confidence from the club's ownership and supporters and, following two seasons without a trophy, Batteux was let go and replaced by former Saint-Étienne player Robert Herbin. , In Herbin's first season in charge, Saint-Étienne finished fourth in the league and reached the semi-finals of the Coupe de France. In the next two seasons, the club won the double, its seventh and eighth career league title and its third and fourth Coupe de France title. In 1976, Saint-Étienne became the first French club since Reims in 1959 to reach the final of the European Cup . In the match, played at Hampden Park in Scotland, Saint-Étienne faced German club Bayern Munich , who were the reigning champions and arguably the world's best team at the time. The match was hotly contested with Saint-Étienne failing to score on numerous chances by Jacques Santini , Dominique Bathenay , and Osvaldo Piazza , among others. A single goal by Franz Roth eventually decided the outcome and Saint-Étienne supporters departed Scotland in tears; however, not without nicknaming the goalposts "les poteaux carrés" ( the square posts ). Saint-Étienne did earn a consolation prize by winning the league to cap off a successful season and, in the following season, the team won the Coupe de France. In 1981, Saint-Étienne, captained by Michel Platini , won its final league title to date after winning the league for the tenth time. After two more seasons in charge, Herbin departed the club for archrivals Lyon . , In 1982, a financial scandal involving a controversial slush fund led to the departure and eventual jailing of long-time president Roger Rocher. Saint-Étienne subsequently suffered a free-fall with the club suffering relegation in the 1983–84 season . The club returned to the first division in 1986 under the leadership of goalkeeper Jean Castaneda who had remained with the club, despite its current financial state. Saint-Étienne kept its place in the first division for nearly a decade with the club reaching the semi-finals of the Coupe de France in 1990 and 1993 during the stint. In 1996, Saint-Étienne was relegated to the second division and returned to Division 1 in 1999. In the 2000–01 season , the club was, amazingly, supervised by five different managers and had to deal with a scandal that involved two players (Brazilian Alex Dias and Ukrainian goalkeeper Maksym Levytsky ) who utilised fake Portuguese and Greek passports. Both players were suspended for four months and, at the end of a judicial inquiry, which linked some of the club's management staff to the passport forgeries, Saint-Étienne was docked seven league points and were, unsurprisingly, relegated. , Saint-Étienne played three seasons in the second division and returned to the first division, now called Ligue 1, for the 2004–05 season . The club's best finish during its current stint in the first division was a surprising 5th-place finish in the 2007–08 season , which resulted in the club qualifying for the UEFA Cup, for the first time since 1982. Saint-Étienne was influenced by several youngsters within the team such as Bafétimbi Gomis , Loïc Perrin , Blaise Matuidi , and Dimitri Payet . The heightened excitement by supporters was soon quelled after the club followed up its 5th-place finish by concluding the next two seasons in 17th place.  , Having won the French League Cup in April 2013, their first major domestic trophy for more than thirty years, Saint Etienne qualified for the third preliminary round of the 2013–14 Europa League campaign. , Following crowd trouble towards the end of the 2012–13 season Saint Etienne where handed a one match stadium ban which would have forced the team to open their campaign behind closed doors. However on 23 July 2013 this ban was lifted.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , As of 27 September 2014  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Below are the notable former and current players who have represented Saint-Étienne in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1919. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 100 official matches for the club. , For a complete list of AS Saint-Étienne players, see Category:AS Saint-Étienne players .  Borussia VfL 1900 Mönchengladbach e.V. , commonly known as Borussia Mönchengladbach ( pronounced [boˈʁʊsi̯a mœnçn̩ˈɡlatbax] ),   Mönchengladbach or Gladbach , is a German association football club based in Mönchengladbach , North Rhine-Westphalia. Founded in 1900, Borussia Mönchengladbach play in the Bundesliga , the top tier of the German football league system , making their first appearance in the league during the 1965–66 season. Subsequently the club became one of Germany's best-known, best-supported, and most successful teams, winning the Bundesliga five times during the 1970s.  , Since 2004, Borussia Mönchengladbach have played at the 54,057 capacity Borussia-Park , having previously played at the smaller Bökelbergstadion since 1919. Borussia-Park is famous for its "Nordkurve" (or North stand), a single-tiered stand. Borussia Mönchengladbach has over 60,000 members as of September 2013 and is the fifth largest club in Germany.  Their main rivals are 1. FC Köln . , "Borussia" is a Latinized form of Prussia , a popular term in naming German clubs located within the former Kingdom of Prussia . The club's nickname is Die Fohlen [diː ˈfoːlən] ( The Foals ), coined in the 1970s due to having a young team with a fast, aggressive playing style. The official mascot of the club is the foal Jünter . , , , Borussia Mönchengladbach were formed as FC Borussia in 1900 in the Eicken district of Mönchengladbach . Borussia derives from the Latinized form of Prussia, the Kingdom in which Mönchengladbach was situated from 1815. By 1912, Die Borussen found themselves in the Verbandsliga , at the time the highest division the club could play in. , In March 1914, the club purchased De Kull , the ground on which the Bökelbergstadion would be built. The First World War halted the progress of both the stadium and FC Borussia , but by late 1917 the team had begun to play games once more. In 1919, FC Borussia merged with another local club, Turnverein Germania 1889 , becoming 1899 VfTuR M.Gladbach . The club tasted its first major success in 1920, beating Kölner BC 3–1, thus winning the Westdeutsche Meisterschaft final. , The union between Germania and Borussia only lasted a matter of two years; the club was thereafter known as Borussia VfL 1900 e.V. M.Gladbach .  , Following the rise of the Nazi Party to power in 1933, the German league system was reformed to consist of 16 Gauligen – Gladbach found themselves playing first in the Gauliga Niederrhein , and later in various Bezirksklassen (District Leagues). Also whilst under the Third Reich, Mönchengladbach's first ever international player was capped; Heinz Ditgens playing in a 9–0 win over Luxembourg for Germany in the 1936 Olympic Games . After the outbreak of the Second World War, play continued as usual, other than for the 1944/1945 season. , Eventually Mönchengladbach resumed play in June 1946, gaining successive promotions to the Landesliga Niederrhein (the regional second tier) in 1949 and the top flight: the Oberliga West in 1950. Following many years of promotions and relegations, Borussia won their first Oberliga title in the 1958–59 season. , In August 1960 Borussia Mönchengladbach defeated 1. FC Köln in the West German Cup. Weeks later, the club won the DFB-Pokal , clinching their first national honours, beating Karlsruher SC 3–2 in the final. The following year took on the now familiar name Borussia VfL Mönchengladbach after the city of München-Gladbach became Mönchengladbach . Further honours would have to wait a decade, however. Borussia' s results in the ten years leading up to the formation of the Bundesliga in 1963 were not good enough to earn them admission into the ranks of the nation's new top flight professional league and so they played in the second tier, the Regionalliga West . , Mönchengladbach enjoyed their first taste of the Bundesliga in the 1965–66 season, earning promotion alongside future powerhouse Bayern Munich . The two clubs would go on to a fierce struggle as they challenged each other for domestic supremacy throughout the 1970s. Bayern took first blood in the struggle for supremacy between the two: winning the Bundesliga championship in 1969 . Mönchengladbach struck back immediately in the next season with a championship of their own and followed up with a second title in 1971 , becoming the first Bundesliga club ever to successfully defend their title. , Bayern Munich then became the first club to win three consecutive titles, with Borussia finishing only a point behind the champions in 1974 . Die Fohlen were able to take some consolation in a 2–1 victory over 1. FC Köln in 1973 to win their second DFB-Pokal . Under coach Hennes Weisweiler , the young side displayed an offensive-minded philosophy and powerful play that attracted fans from all over Germany. The team stayed on the attack and matched Bayern's achievement with three consecutive titles of their own from 1975 to 1977 . Mönchengladbach lost the 1977 final of the European Cup to Liverpool , but also made four appearances in the UEFA Cup with wins in 1975 and 1979 against losses in 1973 and 1980 . The club's spectacular run had come to an end with eight trophies to their credit, and although they would continue to be competitive for many years, success would be much harder to come by.  , Mönchengladbach's golden era ended in the 1980s as the club had to sell many of its best players to keep its finances in order, and without talented coaches like Hennes Weisweiler and Udo Lattek , it was not possible to compete with Bayern Munich . Even so, they managed to finish most seasons in the upper half of the league table, and in 1984 , Die Fohlen were part of a four way race to the Meisterschale – the Bundesliga championship – finishing one point ahead of Bayern, and tied on points with Hamburger SV and champions VfB Stuttgart , but behind on goal difference. In the same season, Mönchengladbach also lost the DFB-Pokal final to Bayern Munich on penalties, Lothar Matthäus and Norbert Ringels both missing from the spot after the game originally ended all square at 1–1. Matthäus subsequently joined Bayern for a then-record fee of 2.25 million DM , leading some fans to question whether he had deliberately missed his penalty.  , The team's performance slipped significantly in the 1990s and Die Fohlen soon found themselves struggling in the lower half of the Bundesliga table. They lost another DFB-Pokal on penalties – this time to Hannover 96 — before winning their most recent trophy to date with a 3–0 DFB-Pokal win over VfL Wolfsburg in 1995 . Finally, in 1999 , Gladbach were relegated to 2. Bundesliga , where they would spend two seasons. Upon returning to the Bundesliga in 2001, Mönchengladbach remained uninspired as they continued to be mired in the bottom half of the league. , In 2004, Mönchengladbach appointed Dick Advocaat , who had guided the Netherlands national team to the semi-finals of the UEFA Euro 2004 tournament and was a successful manager at Rangers , as their new coach. The Dutchman, however, was unable to turn the team's fortunes and resigned in April of the following year. Former Mönchengladbach player and German international Horst Köppel was appointed caretaker for the remaining five fixtures of the season. Köppel had managed the club's reserves since leaving Borussia Dortmund in June 2004. For the 2006–07 season legendary Mönchengladbach player and coach Jupp Heynckes was appointed as team coach. , Borussia had taken steps to improve their financial situation with the construction of a new state-of-the-art stadium called Borussia-Park with a permitted capacity of 59,771 spectators (limited to 54,067 for Bundesliga games and to 46,249 for international games). The club had long been hindered by playing in a much smaller and older facility ( Bökelberg , capacity 34,500) and with the opening of the new stadium in 2004 can look forward to increased revenues through higher ticket sales and the ability to host lucrative international matches. , On the 31st matchday of the 2006–07 season, Borussia Mönchengladbach were relegated from the Bundesliga after fellow relegation fighters Arminia Bielefeld upset Werder Bremen 3–2 while Mönchengladbach lost 1–0 at home to VfB Stuttgart . They were promoted back to the Bundesliga on the 32nd matchday of the 2007–08 season after winning the match against SV Wehen 3–0. , Under coach Lucien Favre , who took over in January 2011, Borussia Mönchengladbach has in recent years shown ambitions to re-establish themselves in the top regions of the Bundesliga. In the 2010–11 season , after a disastrous first half of the season, Borussia Mönchengladbach managed to narrowly avoid relegation through the post-season relegation play-offs. The following season, 2011–12 , followed this up with a strong season in which they were for much of the year in contention for the championship and eventually finished in fourth place. They missed out on qualification to the 2012–13 UEFA Champions League after losing 4–3 on aggregate to Ukrainian club Dynamo Kyiv in the playoff round. During the 2012–13 Bundesliga season, after losing some key players, notably Marco Reus who was voted player of the year in the Bundesliga in the previous season, Borussia Mönchengladbach still contended for the international places until the last match day, eventually finishing in 8th place. , In the 2013–14 Borussia Mönchengladbach had another very successful year, achieving an excellent third place after the first half of the season and finishing the season in 6th place, entering them into the 2014–15 Europa League competition at the play-off stage. , Kit Manufacturers , For recent transfers, see List of German football transfers summer 2014 and List of German football transfers winter 2013–14 . , As of 6 July 2014  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Borussia Mönchengladbach II play in the Regionalliga West and are coached by Sven Demandt .   , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Borussia Mönchengladbach' s five Bundesliga championships entitle the club to display two gold stars of the "Verdiente Meistervereine". , Bundesliga : , 2-Bundesliga : , DFB-Pokal : , German Supercup : , DFB-Ligapokal : , European Cup : , UEFA Cup : , Intercontinental Cup : , Kirin Cup : , Joan Gamper Trophy : , Orange Trophy : , Marbella Football Cup : , German Under 17 Champions : , Under 17 Bundesliga West , i) In the early to late 1970s, Borussia Mönchengladbach's is 1st ranked European clubs in each 5-year period listed by UEFA coefficient . , ii) Borussia Mönchengladbach's is also attached to a number of Bundesliga records: , For a list of every Borussia Mönchengladbach player with 50 or more appearances, see List of Borussia Mönchengladbach players , Players of the club achieved the following honours:  Redirect to:  Malmö Fotbollförening , also known simply as Malmö FF , Malmö or (especially locally) MFF , is a Swedish professional association football club based in Malmö . The club is affiliated with Skånes Fotbollförbund and the team play their home games at Swedbank Stadion .  The club colours, reflected in their crest and kit, are sky blue and white. Formed on 24 February 1910, Malmö FF is the most successful club in Sweden in terms of trophies won.  The club have won the most league titles of any Swedish club with twenty-one, a joint record eighteen Swedish championship titles and a record fourteen national cup titles.  [ A ] They were runners-up in the 1979 European Champions Cup final, which they lost 1–0 to English club Nottingham Forest .  This made them the only Swedish football club, as of 2015, to have reached the final of the competition, for which the team were awarded the Svenska Dagbladet Gold Medal .  , Malmö FF is an open member association and the annual general meeting is the highest policy-making body. The meeting approves the accounts and elects the chairman and board. Håkan Jeppsson is the current chairman, elected in 2010. Daily operations are run by a managing director who liaises with the chairman. With an equity of 226.3 million SEK (approximately €23.7 million) the club is the richest football club in Sweden as of 2015.  , The reigning champions, the club are currently playing in Allsvenskan, where the season lasts from April to November. Malmö FF are the leaders of the overall Allsvenskan table maratontabellen as of the end of the 2014 season.  The club first won Allsvenskan in 1944 .  Malmö FF were most successful during the 1970s, when they won five Swedish championships and four Svenska Cupen titles. The main rivals of the club are Helsingborgs IF , IFK Göteborg and historically IFK Malmö .  MFF Support is the official fan club of Malmö FF.  The club have also been featured in the media, including the football documentaries Blådårar 1 and Blådårar 2 . , , , The club arose from a municipal initiative in 1905 to encourage young people in Malmö to play organised football. One of the youth teams, Bollklubben Idrott, also known simply as BK Idrott, was a predecessor to Malmö FF. BK Idrott joined the newly created football department of IFK Malmö in 1909, but soon left because of issues between the two clubs. On 24 February 1910 the 19 members of BK Idrott founded Malmö FF; the first chairman was Werner Mårtensson .   , The club spent their first ten years in local and regional divisions as there was no official national league competition, playing the majority of their matches in the city division called Malmömästerskapen. They also competed in regional competitions in Scania , and played matches against Danish clubs. In 1916 Malmö FF reached the final of the Scanian regional competition ( Distriktsmästerskapen ) for the first time, playing against rival Helsingborgs IF but losing 3–4.  The club defeated local rival IFK Malmö three times during the season, and thus earned the unofficial but much desired title of Malmö's best football club.  In 1917 Malmö FF competed in Svenska Mästerskapet for the first time, a cup tournament for the title of Swedish champions , but lost their first match in the second qualifying round 4–1 against IFK Malmö. The club continued to play in the cup until 1922, reaching the quarter-finals in 1920 when they were knocked out by Landskrona BoIS . The cup was eventually discontinued and the title of Swedish champions was given to the winners of Allsvenskan which was first created for the 1924–25 season.  [ A ] , In 1920 the Swedish Football Association invited Swedish football clubs to compete in official national competitions. Malmö FF earned a place in Division 2 Sydsvenska Serien. They won this division in the first season, and were promoted to Svenska Serien Västra, the highest level of competition in Sweden at the time. However, they were relegated after a single season, and found themselves back in Sydsvenska Serien for nearly a decade until they again achieved promotion to Allsvenskan, in 1931.  , The club achieved mid-table league positions for two seasons, but they were relegated in 1934 as a penalty for breaking amateur regulations. The club had paid their players a small sum of money for each game. Although against the rules, this was common at the time; Malmö FF were the only club to show it in their accounting records. In addition to relegation to Division 2, the club suffered bans for the entire board of directors and twenty-six players. The version of events told by Malmö FF and local press suggests that local rival IFK Malmö reported the violation to the Swedish Football Association. This belief has contributed to the longstanding competitive tensions between the clubs.    , The club made their way back to Allsvenskan in 1937 after two seasons in Division 2. In the same year Eric Persson was elected as chairman after being secretary since 1929, and held the position until 1974. Persson is regarded by club leaders and fans as the most important person in the club's history, as he turned the club professional in the 1970s. Under his leadership the club went from being titleless in 1937 to holding ten Swedish championships by the end of the 1974 season.  In 1939 the club reached their highest position yet, third place in Allsvenskan, nine points behind champions IF Elfsborg . Malmö FF's first Swedish championship came in 1944, when the club won the penultimate game of the season against AIK before 36,000 spectators at Råsunda . The last game of the season was won 7–0 against Halmstad BK .  , For the next nine seasons, Malmö FF finished in the top three in the league. The club won the Swedish Championship in 1949, 1950, 1951 and 1953, and were runners-up in 1946, 1948 and 1952. The club also won Svenska Cupen in 1944, 1946, 1947, 1951 and 1953, and finished as runners-up in 1945. Between 6 May 1949 and 1 June 1951, the team were unbeaten in 49 matches, of which 23 were an unbroken streak of victories.  , The club finished as runners-up in Allsvenskan twice more, in 1956 and 1957. The following year the club left Malmö IP for Malmö Stadion , which had been built for the 1958 FIFA World Cup , and was to host the club for the next 50 years. In 1964 Malmö FF contracted Spanish manager Antonio Durán ; this was the first of a series of changes that led to the most successful era in the club's history. Young talents such as Lars Granström and Bo Larsson emerged during the early 1960s and would prove to be crucial ingredients in the success that would come in the 1970s. The club finished second in 1964 but went on to win their sixth Swedish Championship in 1965, when Bo Larsson scored 28 goals to finish as the league's top goal scorer. Malmö FF once again won Allsvenskan in 1967, after a less successful year in 1966. The club's young players, as well as talents bought in from neighbouring clubs in Scania in 1967, became a team that consistently finished in the top three in Allsvenskan.  , After finishing as runners-up in Allsvenskan for the final two years of the 1960s, Malmö FF started the most successful decade of their history with a Swedish Championship in 1970. The club won Allsvenskan in 1970, 1971, 1974, 1975 and 1977 as well as Svenska Cupen in 1976 and 1978. The 1977 Allsvenskan victory qualified the club for the 1978–79 European Cup , and after victories against AS Monaco , Dynamo Kyiv , Wisła Kraków and Austria Wien , they reached the final of the competition, which they played at Olympiastadion in Munich against Nottingham Forest . Trevor Francis , who scored the only goal of the match, won it 1–0 for Forest. Nevertheless, the 1979 European Cup run is the biggest success in the history of Malmö FF.  The team were given the Svenska Dagbladet Gold Medal the same year, awarded for the most significant Swedish sporting achievement of the year, for their achievement in the European Cup.  , Much of the success during the 1970s was due to new tactics and training methods brought to the club by Englishman Bob Houghton , who managed the club between 1974 and 1980. Eric Persson was succeeded as chairman in 1974 by Hans Cavalli-Björkman . After the team performed respectably under managers Keith Blunt and Tord Grip in the early 1980s, Roy Hodgson took over in 1985. He led the club to two Swedish Championships in 1986 and 1988, and the club won Allsvenskan five years in a row between 1985 and 1989. At the time, the championship was decided by play-offs between the best teams after the end of the regular season; this arrangement was in place from 1982 until 1992. The club reached the play-off final four times between 1986 and 1989 but only managed to win the final twice. Apart from Allsvenskan and Swedish Championships, the club won Svenska Cupen in 1984, 1986 and 1989.  , Other than finishing as runners-up in Allsvenskan in 1996, the team did not excel in the 1990s, as the club failed to win Allsvenskan and Svenska Cupen throughout the entire decade. The 1990s ended with relegation from Allsvenskan in 1999. Hans Cavalli-Björkman was succeeded as chairman by Bengt Madsen in 1999, and former player Hasse Borg was contracted as Director of Sport. These operational changes, as well as the emergence of young talent Zlatan Ibrahimović , led to the return to Allsvenskan in 2001. Ibrahimović rose to fame and became an important player in the club's campaign to return to the top league. He was later sold to Ajax in 2001, before playing for several European clubs in Italy's Serie A , FC Barcelona in Spain's La Liga and his current club as of 2015, Paris Saint-Germain in France's Ligue 1 .  , The return to Allsvenskan was the start of the successful early 2000s, under the management of Tom Prahl , when the club finished in the top three three times in a row. In 2004, it won Allsvenskan, the club's fifteenth Swedish Championship. In 2005, the club reached the last qualifying round for the UEFA Champions League but were defeated by FC Thun . Successful sponsor work and player sales also made Malmö FF the richest club in Sweden, a position they still hold as of 2013.   The club moved from Malmö Stadion to Swedbank Stadion in 2009, a stadium built entirely for football and located next to the old one.  , In 2009, Madsen announced that he would step down as chairman, and was replaced by Håkan Jeppsson early the following year.  In 2010, the club marked their 100th anniversary with many celebratory events at the beginning of the season. On the day of the club's 100th anniversary in 2010, the Swedish football magazine Offside declared Malmö FF to be the greatest football club in Swedish history.  The season became a great success as the club won Allsvenskan for the nineteenth time and became Swedish champions for the sixteenth time.  Unlike in 2004, these successes were achieved without any major transfers before the season, and with a squad consisting mostly of younger players.  , In October 2013, Malmö FF won their seventeenth Swedish championship and 20th Allsvenskan title in the penultimate round of the league away from home. Similar to 2010, the title was the result of a young squad. The average age of the squad, 23.8 years, was the youngest team to become champions since the beginning of the 21st century.  The following year Malmö FF qualified for the group stage of the 2014–15 UEFA Champions League by beating Ventspils , Sparta Prague and Red Bull Salzburg in the qualifying rounds.  This was the first time the club qualified for the competition proper since the re-branding from the European Cup in the 1992–93 season and the first time since the 2000–01 season that a Swedish club qualified. In the following months Malmö FF defended their league title, winning their eighteenth Swedish championship and 21st Allsvenskan title.  This was the first time a club defended the Allsvenskan title since the 2003 season. , The club remains one of the dominant football clubs in Sweden. As of the end of the 2014 Allsvenskan season, the club are the leaders of the overall Allsvenskan table maratontabellen .  Malmö FF are also the record holders for total number of Allsvenskan championships and Svenska Cupen championships, and share the record of most Swedish championships with IFK Göteborg .   , The club is often known by the nicknames Di blåe (The Blues) and Himmelsblått (The Sky Blues). This is because of the club colours, sky blue and white. The players wear sky-blue shirts, white shorts, and sky-blue socks. The away colours are red and white striped shirts, black shorts, and red socks. Various alternative kits have been used for European play such as all-white kits introduced in the 1950s, a kit which was re-used for the 2011 and 2012 seasons, and all-black kits with sky-blue and golden edges and text used for European play in 2005 as well as in 2013.  , The club colours have not always been sky blue. The predecessor club BK Idrott wore blue and white striped shirts and white shorts, and this kit was still used for the first six months of 1910 after Malmö FF was founded. This was later changed to red and white striped shirts and black shorts to symbolise that Malmö FF were a new club, and a very similar kit is now used as the away kit for historical reasons. The present sky-blue kit was introduced in 1920.  Since 2010 a small Scanian flag is featured on the back of the shirt just below the neck.  , The crest of Malmö FF consists of a shield with two vertical sky-blue fields on the sides, and one vertical white field in the middle. Underneath the shield is "Malmö FF" spelled out in sky-blue letters with a sky-blue star under the text. In the top area of the shield is a white horizontal field over the three vertical fields. The abbreviation of the club name "MFF" is spelled out with sky-blue letters in this field. On top of the shield are five tower-like extensions of the white field. The present shield crest made its debut on the shirt in the 1940s.  There were other crests before this but they were never featured on the shirt. While the first crest was black and white, the second crest was red and white in accordance with the club's main colours between 1910 and 1920.  , In modern times two golden stars has been added over the shield. This is a feature used only on the crests on player shirts. The stars are used to symbolize that the club have won more than twenty domestic titles. In the original shield logo the full club name and sky-blue star beneath the shield were not featured, they were later added when club chairman Eric Persson discovered while abroad that people had trouble identifying what city the club came from just by looking at the club crest. For the 100th anniversary of the club in 2010, the years 1910 and 2010 were featured on each side of the shield on a sky-blue ribbon behind the shield.  , Malmö FF are well known for their large local following.  The club has several fan clubs, of which the largest is the official fan club MFF Support . It was founded in 1992. MFF Support describes itself as "a non-profit and non-political organization working against violence and racism".  The current chairman of MFF Support is Magnus Ericsson.  , There are also several smaller independent supporter groups. The most prominent of these is Supras Malmö, which was founded in 2003 by a coalition of smaller ultras groups and devoted fans.  The name "Supras" is derived from the words supporters and ultras – the latter indicating that the group is inspired by a fan culture with roots in the Mediterranean . Supras Malmö is the most visible group in the main supporter stand at Swedbank Stadion , marking its presence with banners, flags and choreography. Another group with similar goals is Rex Scania. MFF Tifosi 96 (MT96) is a network of supporters creating tifos for special occasions and important games.  The average attendance for the club's games in the 2014 season was 14,090, the second best attendance in 2014 Allsvenskan after AIK .  , Because of geographical proximity, minor rivalries exist with Trelleborgs FF and Landskrona BoIS , which are both also located in Scania.  The main rivals of the club are Helsingborgs IF , IFK Göteborg and IFK Malmö . The rivalry between Malmö FF and Helsingborgs IF has existed since Malmö FF were promoted up to Allsvenskan in the 1930s, and is primarily geographic, since both teams are from Scania in southern Sweden. The rivalry with IFK Göteborg relates more to title clashes; the two are the most successful clubs in Swedish football history and the only two to have appeared in European cup finals, IFK Göteborg in the UEFA Cup in 1982 and 1987 and Malmö FF in the European Cup in 1979 .  , The rivalry with IFK Malmö is both geographical and historical. The two clubs come from the same city and used to play at the same stadium in the early 20th century. The supposed actions of board members of IFK Malmö in 1933, revealing Malmö FF's breaches of amateur football rules to the Swedish Football Association , further contribute to the competitive tensions between the two clubs.    IFK Malmö have not played in Allsvenskan since 1962; thus matches between the two sides are rare.  , Malmö FF's first stadium was Malmö IP , which was shared with arch-rivals IFK Malmö . The team played here from the founding of the club in 1910, until 1958. The stadium still exists today, albeit with lower capacity, and is now used by women's team FC Rosengård , who were previously the women's section of Malmö FF. Capacity in 2012 is 7,600, but attendances were usually much higher when Malmö FF played there. For the last season in 1957, the average attendance was 15,500. The club's record attendance at Malmö IP is 22,436 against Helsingborgs IF on 1 June 1956.  The stadium is still considered a key part of the club's history, as it was here that the club were founded, played their first 47 seasons, and won five Swedish championships.  , A new stadium was constructed in Malmö after Sweden was awarded the 1958 FIFA World Cup – this saw the birth of Malmö Stadion . Malmö FF played their first season at the stadium in 1958. The first time the club won the Swedish championship at the stadium was in 1965.  An upper tier was added to the stadium in 1992.  The club enjoyed the most successful era of their history at this stadium, winning ten out of eighteen Swedish championships while based there. The stadium originally had a capacity of 30,000 but this was lowered to 27,500 due to changes in safety regulations. The club's record attendance at the stadium was 29,328 against Helsingborgs IF on 24 September 1967.  , Following the 2004 victory in Allsvenskan ,  plans were made to construct a new stadium. In July 2005, Malmö FF announced that work was to begin on Swedbank Stadion , designed for 18,000 seated spectators and 6,000 standing. The stadium can also accommodate 21,000 as an all-seater for international and European games in which terracing is not allowed. Construction started in 2007 and was finished in 2009. The new stadium is located next to Malmö Stadion. Although there was still small-scale construction going on around the stadium at the time, the stadium was inaugurated on 13 April 2009 with the first home game of the 2009 season against Örgryte IS ; Malmö FF's Labinot Harbuzi scored the inaugural goal in the 61st minute.  The first Swedish championship won at the stadium occurred in 2010, when the club beat Mjällby AIF on 7 November in the final game of the season 2–0. Attendance at this game set the stadium record of 24,148.   Swedbank Stadion is a UEFA category 4 rated stadium .  , Malmö FF made the transition from an amateur club to fully professional in the late 1970s under the leadership of club chairman Eric Persson .  The club is an open member association, and the annual general meeting is the highest policy-making body where each member has one vote, therefore no shares are issued. The meeting approves the accounts, votes to elect the chairman and the board, and decides on incoming motions. The current chairman is Håkan Jeppsson who has been chairman since 2010 after taking over after Bengt Madsen . The club's legal status means that any interest claims are made to the club and not to the board of directors or club members. Daily operations are run by a managing director who liaises with the chairman.  , With an equity of 226.3 million SEK the club is the richest football club in Sweden as of 2015. The turnover for 2014, excluding player transactions, was 358.8 million SEK.  The highest transfer fee received by Malmö FF for a player was 86.2 million SEK ( € 8.7 million at that time) for Zlatan Ibrahimović who was sold to Ajax in 2001. As of 2015, this is the highest transfer fee ever paid to a Swedish football club.  , The main sponsors of Malmö FF are Elitfönster AB, Intersport , Imtech , JMS Mediasystem, Mercedes-Benz , SOVA and Svenska Spel .  The club also have a naming rights deal with Swedbank regarding the name of Swedbank Stadion . The current kit manufacturers are Puma , they also sponsor the club and many of Puma's products are sold in the official Malmö FF souvenir shop at Swedbank Stadion .  The current kit sponsor is Rörläggaren, the company holds the sponsorship rights for the kit until 2015.  , Malmö FF have been the subject of several films. Some examples are Swedish football documentaries Blådårar 1 and Blådårar 2 , which portray the club from both supporter and player perspectives during the 1997 and 2000 seasons. Blådårar 1 is set in 1997, when the club finished third in Allsvenskan . The film focuses on devoted fan Lasse, player Anders Andersson , former chairman Hans Cavalli-Björkman and other individuals.   Blådårar 2 is set in 2000, the year after the club had been relegated to Superettan, and follows the team as they fight for Malmö FF's return to Allsvenskan.   The second film continues to follow Lasse, but also has a significant focus on Zlatan Ibrahimović , his progress and how he was eventually sold to AFC Ajax during the 2001 season.   , The club have also been featured in Mitt Hjärtas Malmö , a series of documentaries covering the history of Malmö. Clips used included match footage from the 1940s (Volume 7), and match footage from the 1979 European Cup Final in Munich from a fan's perspective (Volume 8).  Volume 9 of the series is devoted entirely to coverage of the club's 100th anniversary in 2010.  , In the 2005 Swedish drama movie Om Sara , actor Alexander Skarsgård plays the fictional football star Kalle Öberg, who plays for Malmö FF.   Finally, a recurring sketch in the second season of the comedy sketch show Hipphipp! involved a group of Malmö FF fans singing and chanting while performing everyday tasks, such as shopping or operating an ATM.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , For season transfers, see transfers winter 2014–15 . , 12 – MFF Support  , List criteria: , As of 11 April 2014   , As of 7 January 2015  , This is a list of managers who have won one or more titles at the club  , Malmö FF have played 79 seasons in Allsvenskan. The only clubs to have played more seasons are AIK with 86 and IFK Göteborg with 82. The club are also the leaders of the all-time Allsvenskan table since the end of the 2012 season. They are the only Swedish club to have played a European Cup final, present day UEFA Champions League, having reached the 1979 European Cup Final .   , Malmö FF have won domestic, European, and international honours. The club currently holds the records for most Allsvenskan and Svenska Cupen titles, they also share the record of most Swedish championships with IFK Göteborg . [ A ] The majority of Malmö FF's honours are from the 1970s. The club's last major honour was in 2014 when they won Allsvenskan.   The club first played in Europe for the 1964–65 European season in the European Cup , and most recently in the 2014–15 European season in the UEFA Champions League group stage. Including the qualification stages, they have participated in the European Cup and UEFA Champions League fourteen times and in the UEFA Cup and UEFA Europa League fourteen times. The club have also played in other now defunct European competitions such as the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup and the UEFA Intertoto Cup .    Associazione Sportiva Roma ( BIT :  ASR , LSE :  0MT1 ), commonly referred to as simply Roma [ˈroːma] , is a professional Italian football club based in Rome . Founded by a merger in 1927, Roma have participated in the top-tier of Italian football for all of their existence except for 1951–52 . For their 63rd season in a row (82nd overall), Roma are competing in Serie A for the 2014–15 season . , Roma have won Serie A three times, first in 1941–42 then in 1982–83 and again in 2000–01 , as well as winning nine Coppa Italia titles and two Supercoppa Italiana titles. On the European stage Roma won an Inter-Cities Fairs Cup in 1960–61 , coming close to European Cup victory in 1983–84 (lost the one-legged final played at home against Liverpool ), and finishing as runners-up in the UEFA Cup for 1990–91 ( two-legged aggregate defeat against Inter ). Therefore, Roma is the fourth Italian club by major honours won , behind Juventus, Milan and Inter, and it is considered one of the Seven Sisters of Italian football . , Home games are currently played at the Stadio Olimpico , a venue they share with city rivals Lazio . With a capacity of over 72,000, it is the second largest of its kind in Italy, with only the San Siro able to seat more. In September 2009 the club unveiled plans to build a Stadio della Roma (new 55,000-capacity) in the western suburbs of Rome. Its design was modelled after English football stadiums with the objective being to give fans a closer view of the pitch,   and is said to be inspired by the Colosseum .  In September 2011, it was announced that the new president, Thomas R. DiBenedetto , had reached an agreement with the mayor of Rome, Gianni Alemanno, to have the new stadium completed by 2016.  , , , A.S. Roma was founded in the summer of 1927 when Italo Foschi ,  initiated the merger of three older Italian Football Championship clubs from the city of Rome; Roman FC , SS Alba-Audace and Fortitudo-Pro Roma SGS .  The purpose of the merger was to give the Italian capital a strong club to rival that of the more dominant Northern Italian clubs of the time.  The only major Roman club to resist the merger was S.S. Lazio because of the intervention of the army General Vaccaro, member of the club and executive of Italian Football Federation. The club played its earliest seasons at the Motovelodromo Appio stadium,  before settling in the working-class streets of Testaccio , where it built an all-wooden ground Campo Testaccio ; this was opened in November 1929.  An early season in which Roma made a large mark was the 1930–31 championship, the club finished as runners-up behind Juventus .  Captain Attilio Ferraris along with Guido Masetti , Fulvio Bernardini and Rodolfo Volk were highly important players during this period.  , After a slump in league form and the departure of high key players, Roma eventually rebuilt their squad adding goalscorers such as the Argentine Enrique Guaita .  Under the management of Luigi Barbesino , the Roman club came close to their first title in 1935–36 ; finishing just one point behind champions Bologna .  , Roma returned to form after being inconsistent for much of the late 1930s; Roma recorded an unexpected title triumph in the 1941–42 season by winning their first ever scudetto title.  The eighteen goals scored by local player Amedeo Amadei were essential to the Alfréd Schaffer coached Roma side winning the title. At the time Italy was involved in World War II and Roma were playing at the Stadio del Partito Nazionale Fascista .  , In the years just after the war, Roma were unable to recapture their league stature from the early 1940s. Roma finished in the lower half of Serie A for five seasons in a row, before eventually succumbing to their only ever relegation to Serie B at the end of the 1950–51 season;   around a decade after their championship victory. Under future national team manager Giuseppe Viani , promotion straight back up was achieved.  , After returning to the Serie A, Roma managed to stabilise themselves as a top half club again with players such as Egisto Pandolfini , Dino Da Costa and Dane Helge Bronée .  Their best finish of this period was under the management of Englishman Jesse Carver , when in 1954–55 they finished as runners-up, after Udinese who originally finished second were relegated for corruption.  Although Roma were unable to break into the top four during the following decade, they did achieve some measure of cup success. Their first honour outside of Italy was recorded in 1960–61 when Roma won the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup by beating Birmingham City 4–2 in the finals.  A few years later Roma won their first Coppa Italia trophy in 1963–64, by beating Torino 1–0.  , Their lowest point came during the 1964–65 season when manager Juan Carlos Lorenzo announced that the club could not pay its players and was unlikely to be able to afford to travel to Vicenza to fulfil its next fixture. Supporters kept the club going with a fundraiser at the Sistine Theatre and bankruptcy was avoided with the election of a new club president Franco Evangelisti . , Their second Coppa Italia trophy was won in 1968–69 when it was competed in a small league like system.  Giacomo Losi set a Roma appearance record during 1969 with 450 appearances in all competitions, the record he set would last for 38 years.  , Roma were able to add another cup to their collection in 1972, with a 3–1 victory over Blackpool in the Anglo-Italian Cup .  During much of the 1970s Roma's appearance in the top half of Serie A was sporadic. The best place the club were able to achieve during the decade was third in 1974–75 .  Notable players who turned out for the club during this period included midfielders Giancarlo De Sisti and Francesco Rocca . , The dawning of a newly successful era in Roma's footballing history was brought in with another Coppa Italia victory, they beat Torino on penalties to win the 1979–80 cup.  Roma would reach heights in the league which they had not touched since the 1940s by narrowly and controversially finishing as runners-up to Juventus in 1980–81 .  Former Milan player Nils Liedholm was the manager at the time, with players such as Bruno Conti , Agostino Di Bartolomei , Roberto Pruzzo and Falcão .  , The second scudetto did not elude Roma for much longer; in 1982–83 the Roman club won the title for the first time in 41 years, amidst celebrations in the capital.  The following season Roma finished as runners-up in Italy  and collected a Coppa Italia title,  they also finished as runners-up in the European Cup final of 1984 .  The European Cup final with Liverpool ended in a 1–1 draw with a goal from Pruzzo, but Roma eventually lost the penalty shoot-out.  Roma's successful run in the 1980s would finish with a runners-up spot in 1985–86  and a Coppa Italia victory, beating out Sampdoria 3–2.  , After that a comparative decline began in the league, one of the few league highs from the following period being a third-place finish in 1987–88 .  At the start of the 1990s the club was involved in an all-Italian UEFA Cup final, where they lost 2–1 to Internazionale in 1991 ;  the same season the club won its seventh Coppa Italia trophy  and ended runners-up to Sampdoria in the Supercoppa Italiana . Aside from finishing runners-up to Torino in a Coppa Italia final,  the rest of the decade was largely sub-par in the history of Roma; especially in the league where the highest they could manage was fourth in 1997–98 .  The early 1990s also saw the emergence of homegrown striker Francesco Totti who would go on to be an important member of the team and the club's iconic captain. , Roma returned to form in the 2000s, starting the decade in great style by winning their third ever Serie A title in 2000–01 ; the scudetto was won on the last day of the season by beating Parma 3–1, edging out Juventus by two points.  The club's captain, Francesco Totti was a large reason for the title victory and he would become one of the main heroes in the club's history,  going on to break several club records .  Other important players during this period included Aldair , Cafu , Gabriel Batistuta , and Vincenzo Montella .  , The club attempted to defend the title in the following season but ended as runners-up to Juventus by just one point.  This would be the start of Roma finishing as runners-up many times in both Serie A and Coppa Italia during the 2000s; they lost out 4–2 to AC Milan in the Coppa Italia final of 2003  and lost out to Milan again by finishing second in Serie A for the 2003–04 season.  The club also re-capitalized several time in 2003–04 season. In November 2003 €37.5 million was injected by "Roma 2000" to cover the half-year loss and loss carried from previous year.  and again on 30 June for €44.57 million.  Through stock market, a further €19.850 million of new shares issued, and at the year end, the share capital was €19.878 million,  which unchanged as of 2011 [update] . The following season also saw the departure of Walter Samuel for €25 million and Emerson for €28 million, which decreased the strength of the squad, thus Giallorossi finished as the eighth place, one of the worst of recent season. , A Serie A scandal was revealed during 2006 and Roma were one of the teams not involved; after punishments were handed out, Roma was re-classified as runners-up for 2005–06 ;  the same season in which they finished second in the Coppa Italia losing to Internazionale .  In the two following seasons, 2006–07 and 2007–08 , Roma finished as Serie A runners-up, meaning that in the 2000s Roma have finished in the top two positions more than any other decade in their history  Meanwhile, in the UEFA Champions League during both of these seasons, they reached the quarter-finals before going out to Manchester United . Despite the sloppy start in UEFA Champions League 2008–09 , Roma managed to reach the knockout stage ahead of Chelsea in their group, thus finishing for the first time in their history as winners of the group stage. However, the Giallorossi would lose to Arsenal in the knockout stage on penalty kicks, ending their Champions League campaign. , After a disappointing start to the 2009–10 season, Claudio Ranieri replaced Luciano Spalletti as head coach. At the time of the switch, Roma lay bottom of the Serie A table after losses to Juventus and Genoa. Despite this setback, Roma would later embark on an incredible unbeaten streak of 24 matches in the league – with the last of the 24 being a 2–1 win over rivals Lazio, whereby Roma came from 1–0 down at half-time to defeat their city rivals after Ranieri courageously substituted both Totti and De Rossi at the interval.  The Giallorossi were on top of the table at one point, before a loss to U.C. Sampdoria later in the season. Roma would finish runners-up to Inter yet again in both Serie A and the Coppa Italia. This rounded out a highly successful decade in Roma's history, following somewhat mediocre results of the 1990s. During the 2000s, Roma had finally recaptured the Scudetto, two Coppa Italia trophies, and their first two Supercoppa Italiana titles. Other notable contributions to the club's history have included a return to the UEFA Champions League Quarter-finals (in the 2006–2007 and 2007–2008 editions) since 1984, six runners up positions in the league, four Coppa Italia finals and three Supercoppa finals – marking Roma's greatest ever decade. , In the summer of 2010, the Sensi family agreed to relinquish their control of AS Roma as part of a debt-settlement agreement. This brought an end to the presidential reign of the Sensi family who had presided over the club since 1993. Until a new owner was appointed, Rosella Sensi would continue her directorial role of the club. The 2010–11 season had once again seen Roma start off with mixed fortunes on both a domestic and European level. These included losses against teams like Cagliari, Brescia and a 2–0 defeat against Bayern Munich in the group stages of the Champions League (a match which saw manager Claudio Ranieri openly criticised by his own players). However, these were accompanied by victories against Inter Milan and a sensational victory against Bayern Munich in the return fixture, which saw Roma fight back from 0–2 down at half-time to emerge as 3–2 winners. Following a series of poor results which saw Roma engage in a winless-streak of five consecutive matches, Claudio Ranieri resigned as head coach in February 2011, and former striker Vincenzo Montella was appointed as caretaker manager until the end of the season. It was also during this season that Roma icon, Francesco Totti, scored his 200th Serie A goal against Fiorentina in March 2011 – becoming only the sixth ever player to achieve such a feat. , On 16 April 2011, the takeover contract was closed with a USA investment group lead by Thomas R. DiBenedetto . "DiBenedetto AS Roma LLC" (later renamed to AS Roma SPV, LLC) consists of 4 other shareholders (or 3 not counting the family trust), namely James Pallotta (25%) (of "Tudor Investment"), Michael Ruane (25%) (director of "TA Realty"; partially own the "AS Roma SPV, LLC" through family trust for 22.5%) and Richard D'Amore (25%) (of "North Bridge Venture Partners" and Veeco ).  DiBenedetto became the 22nd president of the club, served from 27 September 2011 to 27 August 2012 and was succeeded by James Pallotta .  In 2011, "AS Roma SPV, LLC" owned 60% shares on NEEP Roma holding, with the rest (40%) retained by the creditor of Sensi, UniCredit ; NEEP in turn owned all shares held previously by Sensi (about 67%) with the rest free float in the stock market. , The new ownership immediately went into effect by making significant changes in the club, hiring Walter Sabatini as director of football and former Spanish international and FC Barcelona B coach Luis Enrique as manager; the first high-profile signings from the duo were attacking midfielder Erik Lamela from River Plate , forward Bojan Krkic from Barcelona , goalkeeper Maarten Stekelenburg from AFC Ajax and unattached defender Gabriel Heinze . The club also sold and released high earner, namely defender John Arne Riise , keeper Doni , forward Jérémy Ménez and Mirko Vucinic . At financial level, the company had recapitalized for more than €100 million, which the last recapitalization was in early 2000s. , However, Roma was eliminated from 2011–12 UEFA Europa League play-off round. After the formal takeover on 18 August, Roma bought forward Pablo Daniel Osvaldo , midfielder Miralem Pjanic , Fernando Gago and defender Simon Kjær , as well as youngster Fabio Borini , made the club costed more than €40 million if the loan deal were successfully turned to definitive deal. In 2012 Pallotta became the new president, which he personally broke the equal partnership by increased the shares holding on NEEP Roma Holding SpA on 1 August 2013 by buying 9% shares from UniCredit (Pallotta held 9% directly plus 15% indirectly on NEEP; in turn NEEP held more than 70% shares on AS Roma SpA, later diluted to 9% directly plus around 12% indirectly due to introduction of the 5th partner in AS Roma SPV, LLC on 4 April 2014; the change in ratio due to UniCredit sold 31% shares on NEEP to AS Roma SPV LCC not known.) , On 12 June 2013, Roma's president James Pallotta announced that Rudi Garcia had been appointed the new manager of Roma.  He enjoyed a fantastic start to his Roma career, winning his first ten consecutive games (an all time Serie A record) including a 2–0 derby win against Lazio , a 3–0 victory away to Inter Milan and a 2–0 home win over title rivals Napoli .  During this run, Roma scored 24 times while conceding just once, away to Parma . , Roma's colours of imperial purple with a golden yellow trim represents the traditional colours of Rome, the official seal of the Comune di Roma features the same colours.  The gold and the purple-red represent Roman imperial dignity.  White shorts and black socks are usually worn with the red shirt, however in particularly high key games the shorts and socks are the same colour as the home shirt.  , The kit itself was originally worn by Roman Football Club ; one of the three clubs who merged to form the current incarnation in 1927.  Because of the colours they wear, Roma are often nicknamed i giallorossi meaning the yellow-reds.  Roma's away kit is traditionally white, with a third kit changing colour from time to time. Maybe because of modern sport marketing, the last few years have seen the golden trim and details substituted by light orange. Modern alternate kits have included all orange and orange-maroon versions. , A popular nickname for the club is i lupi (the wolves), the animal has always featured on the club's badge in different forms throughout their history. Currently the emblem of the team is the one which was used when the club was first founded. It portrays the female wolf with the two infant brothers Romulus and Remus , illustrating the myth of the founding of Rome ,  superimposed on a bipartite golden yellow over maroon red shield.  In the myth from which the club take their nickname and logo, the twins (sons of Mars and Rhea Silvia ) are thrown into the River Tiber by their uncle Amulius , a she-wolf saved the twins and looked after them.  Eventually the two twins took revenge on Amulius, before falling out themselves; Romulus killed Remus and as thus was made king of a new city named in his honour, Rome.  , The very first sport facility A.S. Roma used was Motovelodromo Appio which was previously used by Alba-Audace . A.S. Roma only played the 1927–28 season there until they moved to Campo Testaccio the very next season. Campo Testaccio was used through 1929 to 1940. The team moved later to the Stadio Nazionale del PNF where they spent 13 years before moving once again. , In the 1953–54 season A.S. Roma moved to the Olympic arena, Stadio Olimpico . The arena has undergone several changes over the years. The most significant change took place in the nineties when Stadio Olimpico was demolished and then reconstructed to for the Football World Cup 1990 , witch took place in Italy. A.S. Roma has played almost every season since 1953–54, with exception of the 1989–90 seasons due to the reconstruction of Stadio Olimpico. That year Roma played its home games at Stadio Flaminio . , On 30 December 2012, AS Roma president James Pallotta announced the construction of a new stadium in the Tor di Valle area of Rome. The new stadium Stadio della Roma is scheduled for opening in 2016. The new stadium will have a capacity of 60,000 spectators.  , A sports centre located in Trigoria at kilometer 3600 in south-east of Rome, was purchased 22 July 1977 by the then club president Gaetano Anzalone . It was opened in 23 July 1979 and was it the president Anzalones last act of his presidency.  The complex had its first expansion in 1984 when the club was handled by Dino Viola and another in 1998 under the chairmanship of Franco Sensi .  The sports centre official name is Fulvio Bernardini di Trigoria , named after the club icon Fulvio Bernardini . , The sports centre is also known for hosting the Argentinian football team during Football World Cup 1990 . , Roma is the fifth most supported football club in Italy behind Juventus , Internazionale , Milan and Napoli with around 7% of Italian football fans supporting the club (according to the Doxa Institute-L'Espresso's research of April 2006).  Historically the largest section of Roma supporters in the city of Rome have come from the inner-city , especially Testaccio .  , The traditional ultras group of the club was Commando Ultrà Curva Sud  commonly abbreviated as CUCS ; this group was founded by the merger of many smaller groups and was considered one of the most historic in the history of European football .  However, by the mid-1990s CUCS had been usurped by rival factions and ultimately broke up. Since that time, the Curva Sud of the Stadio Olimpico has been controlled by more right-wing groups;  A.S. Roma Ultras , Boys , Giovinezza and others. The oldest group Fedayn is apolitical however and politics is not the main identity of Roma, just a part of their overall identity. Besides ultras groups, it is believed that Roma fans support the left as opposed to SS Lazio supporters, that are notoriously proud of their right-wing affiliation.  In September 2009 the club unveiled plans to build a new 55,000-capacity stadium in Rome's western suburbs.  , The most known club anthem is Roma (non-si discute, si ama) , also known as Roma Roma ,   by singer Antonello Venditti . The title roughly means "Roma is not to be questioned, it is to be loved" and is sung before each match. The song Grazie Roma , by the same singer, is played at the end of victorious home games. Recently, the main riff of The White Stripes song Seven Nation Army has also become widely popular at games.  , In Italian football Roma is a club with many rivalries; first and foremost is their rivalry with Lazio , the club with whom they share the Stadio Olimpico. The derby between the two is called the Derby della Capitale , it is amongst the most heated and emotional footballing rivalries in the world. The fixture has seen some occasional instances of violence in the past including the death of Lazio fan, Vincenzo Paparelli in 1979–80 as a result of an emergency flare fired from the Curva Sud,  and the abandonment of a game in March 2004, following unfounded rumours of a fatality which led to violence outside the stadium.  , With Napoli , Roma also compete in the Derby del Sole rivalry meaning the "Derby of the Sun".  Nowadays fans also consider other Serie A giants like Juventus (rivalry born especially in the 1980s), Milan and Internazionale (increased in recent years) among their rivals as these four compete for the top three spots in the league table to secure a spot in the Champions League .  , There have been a number of instances of conflict in recent years between some Roma supporters and fans of English clubs, and the subsequent violence outside the stadium which saw a number of Liverpool fans stabbed.  Since then, there have been further instances of some English supporters being attacked and stabbed in Rome, including incidents in 2001 when Liverpool visited Roma twice and subsequent clashes with Middlesbrough fans in 2006 and Manchester United fans in 2007 . In March 2009, a coach carrying Arsenal supporters was attacked by a group of Roma "Ultras" just outside the Stadio Olimpico. The coach's windows were smashed and at least one person entered the vehicle, letting off a flare and stabbed a supporter in the knee.   , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Source: asroma.it , Roma have had numerous presidents over the course of their history, some of which have been the owners of the club, others have been honorary presidents. Franco Sensi was the chairman until his death in 2008, with his daughter Rosella Sensi in place as honorary president.  Here is a complete list of Roma presidents from 1927 until the present day.  , Roma have had many managers and trainers running the team during their history, here is a chronological list of them from 1927 onwards.  , Serie A , Coppa Italia , Supercoppa Italiana , Serie B , European Cup , UEFA Cup , Inter-Cities Fairs Cup , Anglo-Italian Cup , MLS All-Star Game , On 7 October 2012 the Hall of Fame of Roma was announced.  The Hall of Fame players was voted via the clubs official website and a special Hall of Fame panel. In 2013 four players was voted in as well as in 2014, the third year of AS Roma Hall of Fame four more players was voted in.  , Added in 2012: , Added in 2013: , Added in 2014: , Francesco Totti holds Roma's official appearance record, having made 610 (as of May 2011) appearances in all competitions, over the course of 19 seasons from 1992 until the present day.  He also holds the record for Serie A appearances with 474, as he passed Giacomo Losi on 1 March 2008, during a home match against Parma .  , Including all competitions, Francesco Totti is the all-time leading goalscorer for Roma, with 262 goals since joining the club, 207 of which were scored in Serie A (another Roma record).  Roberto Pruzzo , who was the all-time topscorer since 1988 comes in second in all competitions with 136. In the 1930–31 season, Rodolfo Volk scored 29 goals in Serie A over the course of a single season, not only was he the league's topscorer that year, but he set a Roma record for most goals scored in a season, which still lasts today.  , Its major founders Fortitudo and Alba having been relegated at the end of 1926–27 campaign, new-founded Roma had to take part to Southern First Division championship (Serie B) for its inaugural season; nevertheless FIGC decided a special enlargement of first level division re-admitting AS Roma as SSC Napoli. The first ever official game participated in by Roma was in the National Division , the predecessor of Serie A , of 1927–28 , against Livorno ; Roma won 2–0.  The biggest ever victory recorded by Roma was 9–0 against Cremonese during the Serie A season of 1929–30 .  The highest defeat Roma have ever suffered is 7–1, this has happened three times; first against Juventus during 1931–32 , then against Torino in 1947–48 and most recently against Manchester United in 2006–07 .  , Since 1999, during Franco Sensi's period in charge, Associazione Sportiva Roma has been a joint stock company . From 2004 to 2011, Roma's shares are distributed between; 67.1% to Compagnia Italpetroli SpA (the Sensi family holding ) and 32.9% to other shareholders. , In April 2008, after months of speculation, George Soros was confirmed by Rosella Sensi, CEO of Italian Serie A association football club A.S. Roma, to be bidding for a takeover.  The takeover bid was successively rejected by the Sensi family, who instead preferred to maintain the club's ownership. On 17 August 2008 club chairman and owner Franco Sensi died after a long illness; his place at the chairmanship of the club was successively taken by his daughter Rosella. , Since the takeover in 2011, NEEP Roma Holding S.p.A. owned all shares Sensi previously hold. NEEP, itself a joint venture, was held by DiBenedetto AS Roma LLC (later renamed to AS Roma SPV, LLC) and Unicredit in 60–40 ratio from 2011 to 2013, which the former had 4 real person shareholders in equal ratio, led by future Roma president Thomas R. DiBenedetto (2011–12). The takeover also activated a mandatory bid of shares from the general public, however not all minority shareholders willing to sell their shares. The mandatory bid had made NEEP held 78.038% of shares of AS Roma (increased from 67.1% of the Sensi).  On 1 August 2013, the president of Roma as well as one of the four American shareholder of AS Roma SPV, LLC, James Pallotta , bought an additional 9% shares of NEEP Roma Holding from Unicredit (through Raptor Holdco LLC), as the bank not willing to fully participate in the capital increase of NEEP from €120,000 to €160,008,905.   On 4 April 2014 Starwood Capital Group also became the fifth shareholder of AS Roma SPV, as well as forming strategic partnership with AS Roma SpA to develop real estate around the new stadium.  The private investment firm was represented by Zsolt Kohalmi in AS Roma SPV, whom was appointed on 4 April as a partner and head of European acquisitions of the firm.  On 11 August 2014, UniCredit sold the remain shares on NEEP (of 31%) for €33 million which made AS Roma SPV LLC (91%) and Raptor Holdco LLC (9%) were the sole intermediate holding company of AS Roma SpA.  , Along with Lazio and Juventus , Roma is one of only three Italian clubs quotated in Borsa Italiana (Italian stock exchange). According to The Football Money League published by consultants Deloitte , in the season 2010–11, Roma was the 15th highest earning football club in the world with an estimated revenue of €143.5 million.  , Since re-capitalization in 2003–04 season, Roma had a short-lived financial self-sustainability. The club had set up a special amortisation fund using Articolo 18-bis Legge 91/1981 mainly for the abnormal signing prior 2002–03 season, (such as Davide Bombardini for €11 million account value in June 2002, which the flopped player exchange boosted 2001–02 season result) and the tax payment of 2002–03 season was rescheduled. In 2004–05 season Roma made a net profit of €10,091,689 and followed by €804,285 in 2005–06 season.  In 2006–07 season the accounting method changed to IFRS, which 2005–06 result was reclassified as net loss of €4,051,905 and 2006–07 season was net income of €10,135,539 (€14.011 million as a group).  Moreover, the special fund (€80,189,123) was removed from the asset and co-currently for the equity as scheduled, made Roma group had a negative equity of €8.795 million on 30 June 2007. In 2007–08 season Roma made a net income of €18,699,219. (€19 million as a group)  However, in 2008–09 season saw the decrease of gate and TV income, co-currently with finished 6th in Serie A, which saw Roma made a net loss of €1,894,330. (€1.56 million as a group )  The gate and TV income further slipped in 2009–10 season, made a net loss of €21,917,292 (already boosted by the sale of Alberto Aquilani ; €22 million as a group) despite sporting success (the second in 2009–10 Serie A ).  Moreover, despite a positive equity as a separate company (€105,142,589), the AS Roma Group had a negative equity on consolidated balance sheet , fell from +€8.8million to negative €13.2 million. In 2010–11 season Roma was administrated by UniCredit as Sensi family failed to repay the bank and the club was put into the market, which also saw Roma did not had major signing in 2010–11 season. Co-currently with no selling profit on the player, Roma net loss was enlarged to €30,589,137 (€30.778 million as a group) and the new owner already planned a re-capitalization after the mandatory bid on the shares. On the good side, the TV income was increased from €75,150,744 to €78,041,642 as well as gate income increased, from €23,821,218 to €31,017,179. It is because Roma entered 2010–11 UEFA Champions League which counter-weight the effect of the new collective agreement of Serie A. In 2011–12, the renewal of squad and participate in 2011–12 UEFA Europa League had worsen the financial result, which the €50 million capital increase (in advance) was counter-weighted totally by the net loss. In 2012–13 season, the participation in domestic league only, not only not harmful to the revenue but increase in gate income as well as decrease in wage bill, however Roma still not yet break-even (€40.130 million net loss in consolidated accounts). NEEP Roma also re-capitalized AS Roma in advance for another €26,550,000 during 2012–13. A proposed capital increase by €100 million for AS Roma was finally announced on 25 June 2014, however until 22 May 2014 NEEP already injected €108 million to AS Roma, which depends on public subscription, more than €8 million would converted to medium-long term loan from shareholder instead of becoming share capital.  , One of the subsidiary of Roma (joint venture with SS Lazio, 37.5% x2 and Parma, 25%), Società Diritti Sportivi S.r.l. was in the process of liquidation since 2005. The company was a joint-venture of 4 football clubs including Fiorentina. However, after the bankruptcy of old Viola, both Roma and Lazio had increased it shares ratio from 25% to 37.5%. , A.S. Roma had a team in the Superleague Formula race car series where teams are sponsored by football clubs. A.S. Roma's driver was ex IndyCar Series driver Franck Perera . The team had posted 3 podiums and was operated by Alan Docking Racing .  Unione Calcio Sampdoria , commonly known as Sampdoria [sampˈdɔrja] , is an Italian association football club based in Genoa . , The club was formed in 1946 from the merger of two existing sports clubs whose roots can be traced back to the 1890s, Sampierdarenese and Andrea Doria. Sampdoria currently compete in Serie A . , Both the team name and jersey do reflect this, the first being a combination of the former names, the second incorporating the former teams' colours (blue-white and red-black) in a single design. The team's colours are blue with white, red and black hoops, hence the nickname blucerchiati ("blue-circled"). Sampdoria play at Stadio Luigi Ferraris , capacity 36,536,  which it shares with Genoa's other club, Genoa Cricket and Football Club . The derby between the two teams is commonly known as the Derby della Lanterna . , Sampdoria have won the scudetto only once in their history, in the 1991 season. The club has also won the Coppa Italia four times (1985, 1988, 1989, and 1994) and one Italian Super Cup . Their biggest European success came when they won the Cup Winners' Cup in 1990 . They also reached the European Cup final in 1992 , losing 1–0 to Spanish side FC Barcelona after extra time. , , , The Ginnastica Sampierdarenese was founded in 1891, opening its football section in 1899. Also around this time, a club named Society Andrea Doria was founded in 1895, and began to increase their focus on dedicating itself to football. , Andrea Doria did not participate in the first Italian Football Championship which was organised by the Italian Federation of Football (F.I.F.) since instead they had enrolled themselves into a football tournament which was organised by the Italian Federation of Ginnastica. The club eventually joined the competition for the Italian Football Championship 1903 , but did not win a game in the tournament until 1907 when they beat local rivals Genoa 3–1. , It was not until 1910–11 that the club began to show promise; during that season's tournament they finished above Juventus , Internazionale and Genoa in the Piedmont-Lombardy-Liguria section. , After World War I, Sampierdarenese finally began to compete in the Italian Championship, after they bought a pre-war club of Genoa province: Pro Liguria of Bolzaneto . So, Samp and Doria met in the championship for the first time; Doria won in first-leg game (4–1 and 1–1), and they also arrived at second place after Genoa in Ligurian Championship, qualifying for the National Round. , With the 1921–22 season, the Italian top league was split into two competitions; both of the clubs in Sampdoria's history were in separate competitions that year too. Sampierdarenese played in the F.I.G.C. run competition, whereas Andrea Doria played in the C.C.I. variation. , Sampierdarenese won the Ligura section and then went onto the semi-finals, finishing top out of three clubs; this lead them to the final against Novese . Both legs of the final ended in 0–0 draws, thus a repetition match was played in Cremona on 21 May 1922. Still intensely difficult to separate, the match went into extra time with Novese eventually winning the tie (and the Championship) 2–1. , After the league system in Italy was brought back into one item, Sampierdarenese remained stronger than Andrea Doria by qualifying for the league. By 1924–25 the clubs were competing against each other in the Northern League; Doria who finished one place above their rivals won one game 2–1, while Sampierdarenese were victorious 2–0 in the other. At the end of the 1926–27 season, the clubs merged by fascist authorities under the name La Dominante . , Wearing green and black striped shirts, La Dominante Genova were admitted to the first ever season of Serie B , where they finished 3rd just missing out on promotion. The next season, under the name Liguria they had a disastrous year, finishing bottom of the table and were relegated. , Because of this, both Sampierdarenese and Andrea Doria reverted to their previous names as separate clubs. Sampierdarenese were back in Serie B for the 1932–33 season and finished in the upper part; the following year they were crowned champions and were promoted into Serie A for the first time. Andrea Doria on the other hand, battled out the 1930s down in Serie C . , 15 July 1937 saw Sampierdarenese, melting itself with Corniglianese and Rivarolese with the club using the name Associazione Liguria Calcio ; this saw them reach 5th place in Serie A during 1939. In the early 1940s, the club was relegated, but bounced straight back up as Serie B champions in 1941. , After World War II, both clubs were competing in Serie A ; in a reverse of pre-war situations, Andrea Doria were now the top club out of the two. However on 12 August 1946 a merger took place that would stick for the two teams, together they formed Unione Calcio Sampdoria . The first president of this new club was Piero Sanguineti, but the ambitious entrepreneur Amedeo Rissotto soon replaced him, while the first team coach during this period was a man from Florence named Giuseppe Galluzzi. In the same month of the merger, the new club demanded that they should share the Stadio Luigi Ferraris ground with Genoa ; the agreement was carried off without problems. Consequently, the stadium was prepared to accommodate the games of both clubs. , As if to further show that the merger really was equal parts of both previous clubs, a new football kit was designed for the club; it implemented the blue shirts of Andrea Doria with the white, red and black midsection of Sampierdarenese. , In 1979 the club, then playing Serie B, was acquired by oil businessman Paolo Mantovani (1930–1993), who invested in the team to bring Sampdoria to the top flights. In 1982 Sampdoria made their Serie A return, and they won their first Coppa Italia three years later. In 1986 Vujadin Boskov was appointed as new head coach; the club won their second Coppa Italia in 1988, being admitted to the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup 1988-89 , where they reached the final, being defeated 2–0 by Barcelona .   A second consecutive triumph in the Coppa Italia gave Sampdoria a spot in the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup 1989-90 , which they finally won defeating Anderlecht after extra time in the final. This was followed only one year later by their first (and, as of 2015, only) scudetto , being crowned as Serie A champions with a five points advantage to second-placed Inter Milan. The winning team featured several notable players, such as Gianluca Pagliuca , Gianluca Vialli , Roberto Mancini , Toninho Cerezo , Pietro Vierchowod and Attilio Lombardo , with Vujadin Boskov as head coach. In the following season, Sampdoria reached the European Cup final, and was defeated again by Barcelona at the Wembley Stadium . , Since this period Sampdoria have made a limited number of appearances in European cup competitions. During the 1994/1995 campaign they reached the semi-finals of the 1994–95 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup before being eliminated on penalties in a memorable tie against Arsenal . The club also participated in the 1997-98 UEFA Cup but were eliminated by Athletic Bilbao of Spain in the First Round. The 2005/2006 season also proved to be a significant one, with Sampdoria returning to European competition for the first time since their promotion back to Serie A, with the club narrowly missing out on Champions League qualification and entering the UEFA cup. During this campaign, the team was minutes away from qualification to the last 32 when Lens of France eliminated them by beating them 2–1. The club recently also took part in the 2007-08 UEFA Cup , entering via the Intertoto Cup . However it was to be a short and disappointing campaign, with Sampdoria being eliminated on away goals by AaB of Denmark in the First Round. Participation in recent seasons of Europa League was marked by constant defeats by Metalist Kharkiv and lack of consistent play. , On 14 October 1993 Paolo Mantovani suddenly died; he was replaced by his son Enrico. During Enrico Mantovani's first season (1993/94) Sampdoria won one more Italian Cup and placed 3rd in the national championship. During the following four seasons many players from his father's team left the club but many important acquisitions were made which kept Sampdoria in the top tier of the Italian Serie A. The likes of Enrico Chiesa, Argentine internationals Juan Sebastian Veron and Ariel Ortega , loan signing Vincenzo Montella and international midfielders Clarence Seedorf and Christian Karembeu . , Despite this, in May 1999 Sampdoria were relegated from Serie A, and did not return to the top flight until 2002. Around this time Sampdoria was acquired by Riccardo Garrone , an Italian oil businessman. Two of Garrone's most important initial moves were to inject new cash into the club and to appoint Walter Novellino as new head coach. Sampdoria returned to Serie A in 2003 lead by talisman Francesco Flachi , and ended their first season in eighth place. In the Serie A 2004-05 they lost a spot in the UEFA Champions League to Udinese in the final matchdays of the season, ending in fifth place. This was followed by a poor season; despite this, Novellino was confirmed for one more season and Sampdoria ended the 2006–07 Serie A campaign in ninth place. As the 8th placed team in Serie A were not granted a UEFA licence, Sampdoria was able to enter the UEFA Intertoto Cup 2007 as a result. Novellino announced his farewell to Sampdoria soon after, with Walter Mazzarri unveiled shortly after as his replacement. , The 2007–08 campaign started very early for Sampdoria due to qualifying rounds. They defeated Cherno More Varna in the Intertoto Cup and Hajduk Split in the second qualifying round of UEFA Cup, before being eliminated in the First Round proper by AaB on away goals. The club took actively part in the transfer market, persuading Vincenzo Montella to make a comeback at Samp and signing Antonio Cassano from Real Madrid on a loan basis. Having had such a successful loan period, Sampdoria have made the move permanent from the 2008–09 season. During the winter transfer window, Giampaolo Pazzini was signed and formed one of Serie A's most effective partnerships. Sampdoria ended the season in sixth place of the Italian Serie A and qualified for the UEFA Cup 2008-09 . The following season, they qualified for the Champions League play-offs . , With the departure of Director of Sport Giuseppe Marotta , coach Luigi Delneri , both of whom were credited with Samp's recent successes and club top scorers Cassano and Pazzini and the squad being stretched by Champions League football, Sampdoria embarked on a miserable run of results and were relegated to Serie B after loss 2–1 at home to Palermo in May 2011. , But in the following season Sampdoria won the playoffs beating Varese 1–0 in the final return of the play-off after the 3–2 of the first round and return to Serie A . They were the first club outside of the third place to win the play-off as well as the first sixth-placed club to do so. , In the club's first couple of seasons back in Serie A, the side achieved consecutive midtable finishes but continued it's reputation of producing quality young players and sold on players like Shkodran Mustafi , Mauro Icardi , Andrea Poli and Simone Zaza for significant transfer fees. , After a 6th placed Genoa in the 2014–15 season could not get a UEFA license for the 2015–16 UEFA Europa League , 7th placed Sampdoria took over their spot.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , The following players had international caps for their respective countries. Players whose name is listed in bold represented their countries while playing for Sampdoria. , The club crest features a sailor in profile known by the old Genoese name of Baciccia, which translates to Giovanni Battista in Italian or John-Baptist in English. The image of a sailor is appropriate due to Sampdoria being based in the port city of Genoa. , The white, blue, red and black colours within the crest represent the clubs origins of a merger between two teams, Sampierdarenese and Andrea Doria, who wore respectively red/black and white/blue jerseys.  , Sampdoria supporters come mainly from the city of Genoa. The biggest group are Ultras Tito Cucchiaroni, named after an Argentinian left winger who played for Sampdoria. The group were founded in 1969, making it one of the oldest ultra groups in Italy. They are apolitical, although there are smaller groups like Rude Boys Sampdoria, who are left-wing. The main support with flags and flares comes from the southern Curva , Gradinata Sud. , Sampdoria's biggest rivals are Genoa C.F.C. , against whom they play the Derby della Lanterna .  When Sampdoria were relegated from Serie A in 2011, more than 30,000 Genoa supporters staged a mock funeral procession through the streets of the city carrying a coffin draped in blue.  , Serie A : 1 , Serie B : 2 , Coppa Italia : 4 , Supercoppa Italiana : 1 , European Cup/Champions League , UEFA Cup Winners' Cup : 1 , Amsterdam Tournament :  Bayer 04 Leverkusen , also known as Bayer Leverkusen [ˌbaɪ̯ɐ ˈleːvɐˌkuːzn̩] , Leverkusen or simply Bayer , is a German football club based in Leverkusen , North Rhine-Westphalia.  The club plays in the Bundesliga , the top tier of the German football league system , and host matches at the BayArena .   , The club was founded in 1904 by employees of the German pharmaceutical company Bayer , whose headquarters are in Leverkusen and from which the club draws its name. It was formerly the best-known department of TSV Bayer 04 Leverkusen , a sports club whose members also participate in athletics, gymnastics, basketball and other sports including the RTHC Bayer Leverkusen (rowing, tennis and hockey). In 1999 the football department was separated from the sports club and is now a separate entity formally called Bayer 04 Leverkusen GmbH .  , Bayer Leverkusen have won one DFB-Pokal and one UEFA Cup .  Their local rivals are 1. FC Köln .  , , , On 27 November 1903 Wilhelm Hauschild wrote a letter – signed by 170 of his fellow workers – to his employer, the Friedrich Bayer and Co. , seeking the company's support in starting a sports club.  The company agreed to support the initiative, and on 1 July 1904 Turn- und Spielverein Bayer 04 Leverkusen was founded.  On 31 May 1907 a separate football department was formed within the club.  In the culture of sports in Germany at the time, there was significant animosity between gymnasts and other types of athletes. Eventually this contributed to a split within the club: on 8 June 1928 the footballers formed a separate association – Sportvereinigung Bayer 04 Leverkusen – that also included the handball and fistball players, athletics, and boxing, while the gymnasts carried on as TuS Bayer 04 Leverkusen . SV Bayer 04 Leverkusen took with them the club's traditional colours of red and black, with the gymnasts adopting blue and yellow. , Through this period, and into the 1930s, SV Bayer 04 Leverkusen played third and fourth division football.  In 1936, they earned promotion to the second highest class of play of the period.  That was also the year that the club wore the familiar " Bayer " cross for the first time.  They made their first appearance in upper league play in 1951, in the Oberliga West and played there until 1956, after which they were relegated. SV Bayer 04 Leverkusen would not return to the upper leagues until 1962, just one season before the formation of Germany's new professional league, the Bundesliga . The next year saw the club in the Regionalliga West , tier II, where their performances over the next few seasons left them well down the league table. , SV Bayer 04 Leverkusen made something of a breakthrough in 1968, by winning the division title, but were unable to advance through the playoff round to the first division. They were relegated again in 1973, but made a quick return to what was now called the 2. Bundesliga after just one season spent in the third division. Four years later, the team handily secured a place in the Bundesliga to start to play there in the 1979–80 season. , By the mid-1980s, SV Bayer 04 Leverkusen had played their way into the upper half of the league table and were well-established there by the end of the decade. It was during this time, in 1984, that the two-halves of the club that had parted ways over a half century earlier were re-united as TSV Bayer 04 Leverkusen e.V. The new club took red and white as their colours. , In addition to becoming an established Bundesliga side, the club earned its first honours with a dramatic win in the 1988 UEFA Cup . Down (0–3) to Espanyol after the first leg of the final, they drew even in the return match and then captured the title (3–2) on penalty kicks.   , That same year, long-time Bayer Leverkusen executive Reiner Calmund became the general manager of the club. This is regarded as one of the most important moves in the club's history, as Calmund ushered in a decade and a half of the club's greatest success through shrewd, far-sighted player acquisitions. , After the German reunification in 1990, Reiner Calmund was quick to sign East German stars Ulf Kirsten , Andreas Thom , and Jens Melzig . The three players would become instant crowd favourites, and make significant contributions to the team. Calmund also established groundbreaking contacts in Brazilian football , befriending Juan Figer, one of Brazil's most powerful player agents . Over the next few years, budding superstars, such as Jorginho and Paulo Sérgio , joined the team, as did Czech star Pavel Hapal . They also signed charismatic players, such as Bernd Schuster , and Rudi Völler , helping to ensure the team's popularity and growing success. , The club captured its next honour in 1993, with a 1–0 win in the German Cup over a surprising Hertha Berlin amateur squad on 12 June 1993.   In the following season, in a game also known for its 45 m "German Goal of the Year" by Schuster (a goal which was later also named "Goal of the Decade"), Bayer 04 played against Eintracht Frankfurt early in the season, and, as both a "tip of the hat" to their own history as well as an attempt to perhaps upset the Frankfurt team, Bayer played in its new 3rd colors, which were old-fashioned red and black stripes. (The jerseys were similar to the ones Frankfurt generally wore at the time.) This proved so popular with the fans that, very shortly thereafter, the team reverted to its "retro" colors of red and black, colors used on all home jerseys since then. , After a near disaster in 1996 when the club faced a relegation battle, Bayer Leverkusen established itself as a powerful side, offering a technically pleasing offensive style of play under new coach Christoph Daum , who was also helped by the signing of players such as Lúcio , Emerson , Zé Roberto , and Michael Ballack . Daum was later to be famously fired for a cocaine scandal that also cost him his ascent to the role of the national team coach.   , The team earned a series of four second place from 1997 to 2002. The finishes of 2000 and 2002 were heart-breaking for supporters as on both occasions the team had the Bundesliga title within its grasp. In 2000, Bayer Leverkusen needed only a draw against Unterhaching to win the title, but an own goal by Ballack helped send the team to a crushing 2–0 defeat, while Bayern Munich clinched the title with a (3–1) victory over Werder Bremen . Two years later, the club surrendered a five-point lead atop the league table by losing two of its last three matches while Borussia Dortmund swept ahead with three consecutive victories in its final matches. The 2002 season has been dubbed the "Treble Horror", as Bayer Leverkusen were also beaten 4–2 in the German Cup final by Schalke 04 , and lost the UEFA Champions League final 2–1 to Real Madrid , which also led to some of the English-language media dubbing them "Neverkusen".    Leverkusen was the first team to reach the final of the UEFA Champions League without ever winning a national championship. [ citation needed ] , The club went through startling reversals of fortune in the next two seasons. In the 2002 offseason, the team lost influential midfield stars Michael Ballack , and Zé Roberto , to archrivals Bayern Munich. The team flirted with relegation through most of the 2002–03 season leading to the firing of Klaus Toppmöller , who had coached the team during its most successful year, and he was replaced by the inexperienced Thomas Hörster. Charismatic coach Klaus Augenthaler took up the reins in the last two games of the season and helped avoid disaster with a win over his previous club Nuremberg . He then led Bayer Leverkusen to a third place finish and a Champions League place the following year. , That following season's run in the Champions League saw them get some measure of revenge on Real Madrid, opening their group stage campaign with a 3–0 rout of the Spanish giants,  helping Leverkusen to win the group.  Leverkusen were defeated in the first knockout round by eventual champions Liverpool F.C. .   The club finished sixth during the 2004–05 season, and would enter the UEFA Cup the following season. , Early in 2005, Augenthaler was in turn fired as manager after the club got off to their worst Bundesliga start in over twenty years, with only one win in their first four league matches and a (0–1) home loss to CSKA Sofia in the first leg of their 2005–06 match-up.  Former German national team manager Rudi Völler , who had been named sporting director prior to the season, took charge of five matches as caretaker manager .   Michael Skibbe , who was Rudi Völler's assistant coach with the national team, was named as his successor in October 2005.  Skibbe turned their season around and guided the club to a sixth place finish in 2006 , earning another UEFA Cup place, and then repeated that feat with a fifth place Bundesliga finish in 2007.  , The 2007–08 season was not a successful one for Bayer Leverkusen despite a good start to the season. Five out of the last ten season games were lost to clubs in the lower half of the table. Michael Skibbe was heavily criticised towards the end of the season after he continuously changed his starting line up. Bayer Leverkusen also lost a lot of their support towards the end of the season. In the 1–2 home loss against Hertha BSC , the Leverkusen fans caused much commotion. Fans chanted for the sacking of Skibbe, while some Ultras, who had seen enough, set fire to their jerseys and threw them onto the field. Michael Skibbe was sacked soon thereafter, leaving the club on 21 May 2008, with club officials stating that his departure was due to the failure to qualify for the following season's UEFA Cup group stage.  , The 2008–09 season got off to a great start for Bayer Leverkusen under new manager Bruno Labbadia , who they had acquired from 2.Bundesliga club SpVgg Greuther Fürth .  As the season progressed however, the team failed to achieve any wins against top clubs in the Bundesliga. Leverkusen did manage to reach the German Cup Final on 30 May 2009 in Berlin, but fell 0–1 to Werder Bremen .   Leverkusen finished the season in ninth place in the Bundesliga table and Labbadia moved to Hamburger SV in June 2009.  Shortly thereafter, Leverkusen presented Jupp Heynckes as their new manager, who had previously managed Bayern Munich after Jürgen Klinsmann 's departure.  , In contrast to many other German football clubs, which hold close ties to their working-class roots, Bayer Leverkusen strives for a clean, family-friendly image.  The BayArena has the reputation of being one of the most family-friendly football stadiums in Germany.  Ironically, Bayer 04 was the first Bundesliga club whose fans identified themselves as Ultras and the city of Leverkusen is one of the old industrial cities of Germany.  , Bayer Leverkusen is perceived by some to have an ongoing image problem of a different sort.  Although they are a financially healthy club with a stable of strong players, many fans of the traditional clubs denounce Bayer Leverkusen as being a "plastic club", without traditions or a committed fan base, existing solely as a creation of their rich pharmaceutical company sponsor – Bayer AG .   As a result, the club and their fans have started to emphasize their industrial origins with proudness, calling themselves "Werkself" (Eng. "Factory team", "Millhanders") or "Pillendreher" (Eng. "Tablet twisters").   , However, this is not a unique phenomenon in football. Other famous clubs such as PSV Eindhoven , FC Carl Zeiss Jena and Sochaux share a similar reputation of being works teams .   As distinguished from the various Red Bull teams ( Salzburg , New York and Leipzig ) which has been established or redefined in the recent past primarily for commercial reasons, the formation of Bayer Leverkusen was motivated by the idea of promoting the conditions of living of the local factory workers at the beginning of the 20th century. In due consideration of the tradition of the factory squad UEFA allows Bayer Leverkusen, in contrast to Red Bull Salzburg, to use the brand name of Bayer in European club competitions.  , Bundesliga : , DFB-Pokal : , 2. Bundesliga North : , DFB-Supercup : , UEFA Cup : , UEFA Champions League : , For recent transfers, see List of German football transfers summer 2015 , As of 8 March 2015  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Updated as of 1 July 2014.   Association Sportive de Monaco Football Club (commonly referred to as AS Monaco ( pronounced:  [ɑ ɛs monako] ) or simply Monaco ) is a French-registered Monaco -based football club .  The club was founded in 1924 and plays in Ligue 1 , the top tier of French football . The team plays its home matches at the Stade Louis II in Fontvieille . Monaco is managed by Leonardo Jardim and is captained by Jérémy Toulalan . , Though based in Monaco, the club is regarded as a French club , as the club plays in the French football league system , and because the principality of Monaco is not a member of UEFA .   Monaco is one of the most successful clubs in France, having won seven league titles and five Coupe de France trophies. The club has also regularly competed in European football having been runners-up in the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1992 and the UEFA Champions League in 2004 . , The club's traditional colours are red and white, and the club is known as Les Rouges et Blancs ( The Red and Whites ). Monaco is also a member of the European Club Association . In December 2011, two-thirds of the club was sold to an investment group led by Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev .  With Rybolovlev's financial backing, the club quickly returned to Ligue 1 . , , , AS Monaco FC was founded on 23 August 1924 as a unification of numerous local clubs based in France and the principality . The club's early years were spent in the amateur regional divisions of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region , rising rapidly between the leagues in the 1920s. In 1933, Monaco were invited by the French Football Federation to turn professional. The Monégasques' first year of second division football ended in failure however, as they were relegated to the amateur leagues the following year. By 1948, Monaco re-acquired its professional status and returned to the French second division; they subsequently consistently finished in its upper echelons, with this sustained effort resulting in promotion to the French first division for the first time in 1953. , In 1960, Monaco's first iconic coach, Lucien Leduc , led the club to its first professional trophy, the Coupe de France , beating Saint-Étienne 4–2 in extra time . This initial success was bettered in the following year with the club winning the French Championship for the first time in its history, qualifying for the European Cup . Leduc subsequently led the club to its first League and Cup Double in 1963. Upon Leduc's departure in 1963, Monaco endured a barren run, entrenched in the middle half of the league for the best part of the next decade and alternating between the first and second divisions after 1963. In 1975, Jean-Louis Campora, son of former president Charles Campora, became chairman of the club. In his second season, he brought back Leduc, who immediately won the club promotion to the first division and won them the championship the following year in 1978. Leduc subsequently left the club again in 1979, to be succeeded by Lucien Müller and Gérard Banide , both of whom were unable to halt the club's decline. , The early 1980s saw a steady stream of successes in national competitions. Monaco won a title almost every other year; the Coupe de France in 1980 and 1985, the French Championship in 1982, was Coupe de France finalist in 1984. In the 1985–86 season, Monaco hammered Bordeaux 9–0, one of the biggest wins in club history.  , Disappointingly for Monaco fans, the club could not translate its domestic leadership into European success. Up to this point, Monaco had never passed the first round of any European competition. Monaco lost to Dundee United (1981) CSKA Sofia twice (1982 and 1984) and Universitatea Craiova .  , In 1986, famed Ajax manager Ștefan Kovács , who succeeded Rinus Michels and honed his Total Football ideals with the Dutch champions, came out of a three-year "retirement" to manage Monaco, but even he could not bring them success. With the club facing a second barren spell, they signed Arsène Wenger , who had hitherto been relatively unknown, managing Nancy without much success. Wenger's reign saw the club enjoy one of its most successful periods, with several inspired signings, including George Weah , Glenn Hoddle , Jürgen Klinsmann , and Youri Djorkaeff . Youth team policies produced future World Cup winners Emmanuel Petit , Lilian Thuram , and Thierry Henry . Under Wenger, they won the league in his first season in charge (1988) and the Coupe de France in 1991, with the club consistently competing in the latter stages of the European Cup and regularly challenging for the league title.  The club could have had even greater success in this period, as it emerged in 1993 that bitter rivals Marseille had indulged in match fixing and numerous improprieties, a view that Wenger had long held.  In 1994, after being blocked by the Monaco board from opening discussions with German powerhouse Bayern Munich for their vacant managerial post after being shortlisted for the role, Wenger was released from the club, several weeks after the post had already been filled.   , After Wenger's departure, the club went on to record two further league championships; under Jean Tigana in 1997 and under Claude Puel in 2000 . However, as the decade came to an end, rumours were surfacing that the club was facing numerous financial difficulties. In 2003, these financial problems came to a head. Despite finishing second in the league, the club was relegated to Ligue 2 by the French Professional League for amassing a €50 million ($68 million) debt.  Whilst this was reduced on appeal to a ban on purchasing players, it was enough to force President Jean-Louis Campora, who had been in charge for 28 years, to step aside. He was replaced by Pierre Svara, an administrator considered to be close to the Principality's royal family but with no footballing experience.  , The following season saw remarkable success on the field, given the club's financial strife. The team, coached by former French national team captain Didier Deschamps and featuring stalwarts such as Fernando Morientes , Ludovic Giuly , Jérôme Rothen , and Dado Pršo , finished third in Ligue 1 and enjoyed a remarkable run to the final of the UEFA Champions League , beating Real Madrid and Chelsea along the way. However, despite the on-field success, the 2003–04 season was the club's worst financial year in its history. Within 12 months Deschamps had left as coach and Svara had been replaced by Michel Pastor.  , With Francesco Guidolin hired to replace Deschamps, one of Pastor's first tasks was to hold on to the players who had turned the club into one of the best in Europe. However, he failed to convince them to stay and their replacements were unable to replicate previous successes. Guidolin lasted only one year, before being replaced by assistant coach Laurent Banide who, in turn, only lasted a year, before being replaced by Brazilian Ricardo Gomes . In 2008, after four years at the club featuring six coaches and only mid-table finishes, Pastor left the club amid severe criticism of his management skills. , In 2008, Jérôme de Bontin , a leading shareholder of the club since 2003, took charge of the club, promising a complete shake-up. Under his reign as president, the club brought in players such as Park Chu-Young and Freddy Adu , so they did not find much success on the pitch, going through a torrid season and only managing a mid-table finish. De Bontin resigned at the end of the season, replaced by banker Etienne Franzi and a new board of directors.  , In July 2009, Ricardo Gomes was replaced by former Cannes and Rennes coach Guy Lacombe , inheriting a youthful squad featuring numerous highly lauded youth team prospects, including Cédric Mongongu , Serge Gakpé , Vincent Muratori , Frédéric Nimani , Nicolas N'Koulou , Park Chu-Young , Yohan Mollo , and Yohann Thuram-Ulien .  Lacombe led Monaco to 8th place in Ligue 1 in his first season in charge, but he was unable to replicate this performance in his second season, and was sacked in January 2011, with Monaco in 17th place in Ligue 1. He was replaced by former coach Laurent Banide , who was unable to turn around the club's fortunes; Monaco finished the 2010–11 season in 18th position, thus becoming relegated to Ligue 2 . , In December 2011, 66.67% of the club was sold to the Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev while the club were bottom of Ligue 2.  Banide was sacked due to this poor start to the 2011–12 season , and was replaced by Italian manager Marco Simone . Although he lifted the club to 8th by the end of the season, the club's board targeted promotion for the upcoming season and so fired him and appointed his compatriot Claudio Ranieri , whose attacking style of football saw the club score 64 goals in the 2012–13 season . With the club only losing four times, Monaco finished the season as champions. Using Rybolovlev's funds, Monaco were one of the biggest spenders in Europe in 2013, spending roughly £140 million, including a club record £50 million for Radamel Falcao from Atletico Madrid .  , Monaco played at the original Stade Louis II since its construction in 1939. In 1985, the stadium was replaced with the current iteration , built on a nearby site consisting of land reclaimed from the Mediterranean, which has become a recurring feature of the stadium's seaside surroundings. The stadium is named after the former Prince of Monaco Louis II and houses a total of 18,500 supporters. The Stade Louis II is noted for its iconic nine arches and has hosted numerous athletic events and European Cup finals. Every August from 1998 – 2012 it hosted each instance of the annual UEFA Super Cup , but from 2013 UEFA decided to rotate the event throughout various stadiums in Europe. The stadium has undergone renovations numerous times and, at the beginning of the 2008–09 season , underwent numerous changes, one of which was the installation of two large screens. Monaco train in nearby La Turbie , a newly built training facility featuring state-of-the-art gyms, pools and conference centres. , AS Monaco is today one of the Ambassadors for Peace and Sport , a Monaco -based international organisation.  , As of 22 June 2015 .  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Below are the notable former players who have represented Monaco in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1924. , Players whose name is listed in bold represented their countries while playing for Monaco. , For a list of former and current AS Monaco players with a Wikipedia article, see here . , List of presidents , List of Coaches  Arsenal Football Club are a professional football club based in Holloway, London , who play in English football's top tier, the Premier League . One of the most decorated clubs in English football , they have won 40 domestic and two European trophies, including 13 First Division and Premier League titles and a record 12 FA Cups . Arsenal are one of the most supported,  valuable ,  and lucrative  football clubs in the world, boasting the third most Twitter followers  and the second highest earning stadium.  , During their long history in the top flight, Arsenal have amassed many statistical feats. They hold the ongoing longest uninterrupted period in the top flight,  have accumulated both the second most wins and points,  and would be placed first in an aggregated league of the entire 20th century.  At 14 and 49 matches,  Arsenal hold both the longest winning streak and the longest unbeaten streak. The latter includes the only completely unbeaten season since the 16 match-shorter inaugural Football League season saw Preston North End do it 115 years before. , Arsenal were founded in 1886 in Woolwich and in 1893 became the first club from the south of England to join the Football League . In 1913, they moved north across the city to Arsenal Stadium in Highbury . In the 1930s, they won five League Championships and two FA Cups. World War II ended the run of this Arsenal team, and claimed the lives of more Arsenal players than any other club.  Although the club won two more Championships and an FA Cup after the war, they then suffered a long dry period until 1989; the most notable interruption being the 1970–71 Double . Since, under George Graham and Arsène Wenger , Arsenal have seen a run of five League titles, seven FA Cups, two Doubles, a Champions League Final , and an unbeaten season. Arsenal's time in North London has seen a fierce rivalry with Tottenham Hotspur , the North London derby . , , , Arsenal Football Club were formed as Dial Square in 1886 by workers at the Royal Arsenal in Woolwich , south-east London, and were renamed Royal Arsenal shortly afterwards.  The club were renamed again to Woolwich Arsenal after becoming a limited company in 1893.  The club became the first southern member of the Football League in 1893, starting out in the Second Division , and won promotion to the First Division in 1904. The club's relative geographic isolation resulted in lower attendances than those of other clubs, which led to the club becoming mired in financial problems and effectively bankrupt by 1910, when they were taken over by businessmen Henry Norris and William Hall.  Norris sought to move the club elsewhere, and in 1913, soon after relegation back to the Second Division, Arsenal moved to the new Arsenal Stadium in Highbury , North London; they dropped "Woolwich" from their name the following year.  Arsenal only finished in fifth place in the second division during the last pre-war competitive season of 1914–15, but were nevertheless elected to rejoin the First Division when competitive football resumed in 1919–20, at the expense of local rivals Tottenham Hotspur . Some books have reported that this election to division 1 was achieved by dubious means.  , Arsenal appointed Herbert Chapman as manager in 1925. Having already won the league twice with Huddersfield Town in 1923–24 and 1924–25 (see Seasons in English football ), Chapman brought Arsenal their first period of major success. His revolutionary tactics and training, along with the signings of star players such as Alex James and Cliff Bastin , laid the foundations of the club's domination of English football in the 1930s.  Under his guidance Arsenal won their first major trophies – victory in the 1930 FA Cup Final preceded two League Championships, in 1930–31 and 1932–33 . In addition, Chapman was behind the 1932 renaming of the local London Underground station from "Gillespie Road" to " Arsenal ", making it the only Tube station to be named specifically after a football club.  , Chapman died suddenly of pneumonia in early 1934, leaving Joe Shaw and George Allison to carry on his successful work. Under their guidance, Arsenal won three more titles, in 1933–34 , 1934–35 and 1937–38 , and the 1936 FA Cup while also becoming known as the " Bank of England club ." As key players retired, Arsenal had started to fade by the decade's end, and then the intervention of the Second World War meant competitive professional football in England was suspended.    , After the war, Arsenal enjoyed a second period of success under Allison's successor Tom Whittaker , winning the league in 1947–48 and 1952–53 , and the FA Cup in 1950 . Their fortunes waned thereafter; unable to attract players of the same calibre as they had in the 1930s, the club spent most of the 1950s and 1960s in trophyless mediocrity. Even former England captain Billy Wright could not bring the club any success as manager, in a stint between 1962 and 1966.    , Arsenal began winning silverware again with the surprise appointment of club physiotherapist Bertie Mee as manager in 1966. After losing two League Cup finals, they won their first European trophy, the 1969–70 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup . This was followed by an even greater triumph: their first League and FA Cup double in 1970–71 .  This marked a premature high point of the decade; the Double-winning side was soon broken up and the following decade was characterised by a series of near misses, starting with Arsenal finishing as FA Cup runners up in 1972 , and First Division runners-up in 1972–73 . , Terry Neill was recruited by the Arsenal board to replace Bertie Mee on 9 July 1976 and at the age of 34 he became the youngest Arsenal manager to date. With new signings like Malcolm Macdonald and Pat Jennings , and a crop of talent in the side such as Liam Brady and Frank Stapleton , the club enjoyed their best form since the 1971 double, reaching a trio of FA Cup finals ( 1978 , 1979 and 1980 ), and losing the 1980 European Cup Winners' Cup Final on penalties . The club's only success during this time was a last-minute 3–2 victory over Manchester United in the 1979 FA Cup Final , widely regarded as a classic.   , The return of former player George Graham as manager in 1986 brought a third period of glory. Arsenal won the League Cup in 1987 , Graham's first season in charge. This was followed by a League title win in 1988–89 , won with a last-minute goal in the final game of the season against fellow title challengers Liverpool . Graham's Arsenal won another title in 1990–91 , losing only one match, won the FA Cup and League Cup double in 1993, and a second European trophy, the European Cup Winners' Cup , in 1994 .   Graham's reputation was tarnished when he was found to have taken kickbacks from agent Rune Hauge for signing certain players,  and he was dismissed in 1995. His replacement, Bruce Rioch , lasted for only one season, leaving the club after a dispute with the board of directors.  , The club's success in the late 1990s and first decade of the 21st century owed a great deal to the 1996 appointment of Arsène Wenger as manager. Wenger brought new tactics, a new training regime and several foreign players who complemented the existing English talent. Arsenal won a second League and Cup double in 1997–98 and a third in 2001–02 . In addition, the club reached the final of the 1999–2000 UEFA Cup (losing on penalties to Galatasaray ), were victorious in the 2003 and 2005 FA Cups, and won the Premier League in 2003–04 without losing a single match, an achievement which earned the side the nickname " The Invincibles ".  The feat came within a run of 49 league matches unbeaten from 7 May 2003 to 24 October 2004, a national record .  , Arsenal finished in either first or second place in the league in eight of Wenger's first eleven seasons at the club, although on no occasion were they able to retain the title.  As of July 2013, they were one of only five teams, the others being Manchester United, Blackburn Rovers , Chelsea , and Manchester City , to have won the Premier League since its formation in 1992.  Arsenal had never progressed beyond the quarter-finals of the Champions League until 2005–06 ; in that season they became the first club from London in the competition's fifty-year history to reach the final , in which they were beaten 2–1 by Barcelona .  In July 2006, they moved into the Emirates Stadium , after 93 years at Highbury.  , Arsenal reached the final of the 2007 and 2011 League Cups, losing 2–1 to Chelsea and Birmingham City respectively. The club had not gained a major trophy since the 2005 FA Cup until 17 May 2014, when Arsenal beat Hull City in the 2014 FA Cup Final , coming back from a 2–0 deficit to win the match 3–2.  This qualified them for the 2014 FA Community Shield where they would play Premier League champions Manchester City. They recorded a resounding 3–0 win in the game, winning their second trophy in three months.  Nine months after their Community Shield triumph, Arsenal appeared in the FA Cup final for the second year in a row, thrashing Aston Villa 4–0 in the final and becoming the most successful club in the tournament's history with 12 titles.  , , Unveiled in 1888, Royal Arsenal's first crest featured three cannon viewed from above, pointing northwards, similar to the coat of arms of the Metropolitan Borough of Woolwich (nowadays transferred to the coat of arms of the Royal Borough of Greenwich ). These can sometimes be mistaken for chimneys, but the presence of a carved lion's head and a cascabel on each are clear indicators that they are cannon.  This was dropped after the move to Highbury in 1913, only to be reinstated in 1922, when the club adopted a crest featuring a single cannon, pointing eastwards, with the club's nickname, The Gunners , inscribed alongside it; this crest only lasted until 1925, when the cannon was reversed to point westward and its barrel slimmed down.  , In 1949, the club unveiled a modernised crest featuring the same style of cannon below the club's name, set in blackletter , and above the coat of arms of the Metropolitan Borough of Islington and a scroll inscribed with the club's newly adopted Latin motto , Victoria Concordia Crescit "victory comes from harmony", coined by the club's programme editor Harry Homer.  For the first time, the crest was rendered in colour, which varied slightly over the crest's lifespan, finally becoming red, gold and green. Because of the numerous revisions of the crest, Arsenal were unable to copyright it. Although the club had managed to register the crest as a trademark, and had fought (and eventually won) a long legal battle with a local street trader who sold "unofficial" Arsenal merchandise,  Arsenal eventually sought a more comprehensive legal protection. Therefore, in 2002 they introduced a new crest featuring more modern curved lines and a simplified style, which was copyrightable.  The cannon once again faces east and the club's name is written in a sans-serif typeface above the cannon. Green was replaced by dark blue. The new crest was criticised by some supporters; the Arsenal Independent Supporters' Association claimed that the club had ignored much of Arsenal's history and tradition with such a radical modern design, and that fans had not been properly consulted on the issue.  , Until the 1960s, a badge was worn on the playing shirt only for high-profile matches such as FA Cup finals, usually in the form of a monogram of the club's initials in red on a white background.  , The monogram theme was developed into an Art Deco -style badge on which the letters A and C framed a football rather than the letter F, the whole set within a hexagonal border. This early example of a corporate logo, introduced as part of Herbert Chapman's rebranding of the club in the 1930s, was used not only on Cup Final shirts but as a design feature throughout Highbury Stadium, including above the main entrance and inlaid in the floors.  From 1967, a white cannon was regularly worn on the shirts, until replaced by the club crest, sometimes with the addition of the nickname "The Gunners", in the 1990s.  , In the 2011–2012 season, Arsenal celebrated their 125th year anniversary. The celebrations included a modified version of the current crest worn on their jerseys for the season. The crest was all white, surrounded by 15 oak leaves to the right and 15 laurel leaves to the left. The oak leaves represent the 15 founding members of the club who met at the Royal Oak pub. The 15 laurel leaves represent the design detail on the six pence pieces paid by the founding fathers to establish the club. The laurel leaves also represent strength. To complete the crest, 1886 and 2011 are shown on either sides of the motto "Forward" at the bottom of the crest.  , For much of Arsenal's history, their home colours have been bright red shirts with white sleeves and white shorts, though this has not always been the case. The choice of red is in recognition of a charitable donation from Nottingham Forest , soon after Arsenal's foundation in 1886. Two of Dial Square's founding members, Fred Beardsley and Morris Bates , were former Forest players who had moved to Woolwich for work. As they put together the first team in the area, no kit could be found, so Beardsley and Bates wrote home for help and received a set of kit and a ball.  The shirt was redcurrant, a dark shade of red, and was worn with white shorts and socks with blue and white hoops.   , In 1933, Herbert Chapman, wanting his players to be more distinctly dressed, updated the kit, adding white sleeves and changing the shade to a brighter pillar box red. Two possibilities have been suggested for the origin of the white sleeves. One story reports that Chapman noticed a supporter in the stands wearing a red sleeveless sweater over a white shirt; another was that he was inspired by a similar outfit worn by the cartoonist Tom Webster , with whom Chapman played golf.  Regardless of which story is true, the red and white shirts have come to define Arsenal and the team have worn the combination ever since, aside from two seasons. The first was 1966–67, when Arsenal wore all-red shirts;  this proved unpopular and the white sleeves returned the following season. The second was 2005–06, the last season that Arsenal played at Highbury, when the team wore commemorative redcurrant shirts similar to those worn in 1913, their first season in the stadium; the club reverted to their normal colours at the start of the next season.  In the 2008–09 season, Arsenal replaced the traditional all-white sleeves with red sleeves with a broad white stripe.  , Arsenal's home colours have been the inspiration for at least three other clubs. In 1909, Sparta Prague adopted a dark red kit like the one Arsenal wore at the time;  in 1938, Hibernian adopted the design of the Arsenal shirt sleeves in their own green and white strip.  In 1920, Sporting Clube de Braga 's manager returned from a game at Highbury and changed his team's green kit to a duplicate of Arsenal's red with white sleeves and shorts, giving rise to the team's nickname of Os Arsenalistas .  These teams still wear those designs to this day. , For many years Arsenal's away colours were white shirts and either black or white shorts. In the 1969–70 season, Arsenal introduced an away kit of yellow shirts with blue shorts. This kit was worn in the 1971 FA Cup Final as Arsenal beat Liverpool to secure the double for the first time in their history.  Arsenal reached the FA Cup final again the following year wearing the red and white home strip and were beaten by Leeds United . Arsenal then competed in three consecutive FA Cup finals between 1978 and 1980 wearing their "lucky" yellow and blue strip,  which remained the club's away strip until the release of a green and navy away kit in 1982–83. The following season, Arsenal returned to the yellow and blue scheme, albeit with a darker shade of blue than before. , When Nike took over from Adidas as Arsenal's kit provider in 1994, Arsenal's away colours were again changed to two-tone blue shirts and shorts. Since the advent of the lucrative replica kit market, the away kits have been changed regularly, with Arsenal usually releasing both away and third choice kits. During this period the designs have been either all blue designs, or variations on the traditional yellow and blue, such as the metallic gold and navy strip used in the 2001–02 season, the yellow and dark grey used from 2005 to 2007, and the yellow and maroon of 2010 to 2013.  As of 2009, the away kit is changed every season, and the outgoing away kit becomes the third-choice kit if a new home kit is being introduced in the same year.  , Arsenal's shirts have been made by manufacturers including Bukta (from the 1930s until the early 1970s), Umbro (from the 1970s until 1986), Adidas (1986–1994), Nike (1994–2014), and Puma (from 2014).  Like those of most other major football clubs, Arsenal's shirts have featured sponsors' logos since the 1980s; sponsors include JVC (1982–1999), Sega (1999–2002), O2 (2002–2006), and Emirates (from 2006).   , For most of their time in south-east London, Arsenal played at the Manor Ground in Plumstead , apart from a three-year period at the nearby Invicta Ground between 1890 and 1893. The Manor Ground was initially just a field, until the club installed stands and terracing for their first Football League match in September 1893. They played their home games there for the next twenty years (with two exceptions in the 1894–95 season), until the move to North London in 1913.   , Widely referred to as Highbury, Arsenal Stadium was the club's home from September 1913 until May 2006. The original stadium was designed by the renowned football architect Archibald Leitch , and had a design common to many football grounds in the UK at the time, with a single covered stand and three open-air banks of terracing.  The entire stadium was given a massive overhaul in the 1930s: new Art Deco West and East stands were constructed, opening in 1932 and 1936 respectively, and a roof was added to the North Bank terrace, which was bombed during the Second World War and not restored until 1954.  , Highbury could hold more than 60,000 spectators at its peak, and had a capacity of 57,000 until the early 1990s. The Taylor Report and Premier League regulations obliged Arsenal to convert Highbury to an all-seater stadium in time for the 1993–94 season, thus reducing the capacity to 38,419 seated spectators.  This capacity had to be reduced further during Champions League matches to accommodate additional advertising boards, so much so that for two seasons, from 1998 to 2000, Arsenal played Champions League home matches at Wembley , which could house more than 70,000 spectators.  , Expansion of Highbury was restricted because the East Stand had been designated as a Grade II listed building and the other three stands were close to residential properties.  These limitations prevented the club from maximising matchday revenue during the 1990s and first decade of the 21st century, putting them in danger of being left behind in the football boom of that time.  After considering various options, in 2000 Arsenal proposed building a new 60,361-capacity stadium at Ashburton Grove, since named the Emirates Stadium , about 500 metres south-west of Highbury.  The project was initially delayed by red tape and rising costs,  and construction was completed in July 2006, in time for the start of the 2006–07 season.  The stadium was named after its sponsors, the airline company Emirates , with whom the club signed the largest sponsorship deal in English football history, worth around £100 million;  some fans referred to the ground as Ashburton Grove, or the Grove, as they did not agree with corporate sponsorship of stadium names.  The stadium will be officially known as Emirates Stadium until at least 2028, and the airline will be the club's shirt sponsor until the end of the 2018–19 season.  From the start of the 2010–11 season on, the stands of the stadium have been officially known as North Bank, East Stand, West Stand and Clock end.  , Arsenal's players train at the Shenley Training Centre in Hertfordshire, a purpose-built facility which opened in 1999.  Before that the club used facilities on a nearby site owned by the University College of London Students' Union . Until 1961 they had trained at Highbury.  Arsenal's Academy under-18 teams play their home matches at Shenley, while the reserves play their games at Meadow Park ,  which is also the home of Boreham Wood F.C. . , Arsenal fans often refer to themselves as "Gooners", the name derived from the team's nickname, "The Gunners". The fanbase is large and generally loyal, and virtually all home matches sell out; in 2007–08 Arsenal had the second-highest average League attendance for an English club (60,070, which was 99.5% of available capacity),  and as of 2006, the fourth-highest all-time average attendance.  Arsenal have the seventh highest average attendance of European football clubs only behind Borussia Dortmund , FC Barcelona , Manchester United , Real Madrid , Bayern Munich , and Schalke .     The club's location, adjoining wealthy areas such as Canonbury and Barnsbury , mixed areas such as Islington , Holloway , Highbury , and the adjacent London Borough of Camden , and largely working-class areas such as Finsbury Park and Stoke Newington , has meant that Arsenal's supporters have come from a variety of social classes. , Like all major English football clubs, Arsenal have a number of domestic supporters' clubs, including the Arsenal Football Supporters' Club, which works closely with the club, and the Arsenal Independent Supporters' Association, which maintains a more independent line. The Arsenal Supporters' Trust promotes greater participation in ownership of the club by fans. The club's supporters also publish fanzines such as The Gooner , Gunflash and the satirical Up The Arse! . In addition to the usual English football chants , supporters sing "One-Nil to the Arsenal" (to the tune of " Go West ") and "Boring, Boring Arsenal", which used to be a common taunt from opposition fans but is now sung ironically by Arsenal supporters when the team is playing well.  , There have always been Arsenal supporters outside of London, and since the advent of satellite television, a supporter's attachment to a football club has become less dependent on geography. Consequently, Arsenal have a significant number of fans from beyond London and all over the world; in 2007, 24 UK, 37 Irish and 49 other overseas supporters clubs were affiliated with the club.  A 2005 report by Granada Ventures, which at the time owned a 9.9% stake in the club, estimated Arsenal's global fanbase at 27 million.  , Arsenal's longest-running and deepest rivalry is with their nearest major neighbours, Tottenham Hotspur ; matches between the two are referred to as North London derbies .  Other rivalries within London include those with Chelsea , Fulham and West Ham United . In addition, Arsenal and Manchester United developed a strong on-pitch rivalry in the late 1980s, which intensified in recent years when both clubs were competing for the Premier League title   – so much so that a 2003 online poll by the Football Fans Census listed Manchester United as Arsenal's biggest rivals, followed by Tottenham and Chelsea.  A 2008 poll listed the Tottenham rivalry as more important.  , Arsenal's parent company, Arsenal Holdings plc, operates as a non-quoted public limited company , whose ownership is considerably different from that of other football clubs. Only 62,217 shares in Arsenal have been issued,   and they are not traded on a public exchange such as the FTSE or AIM ; instead, they are traded relatively infrequently on the ICAP Securities and Derivatives Exchange, a specialist market. On 6 November 2014, a single share in Arsenal had a mid price of £14,500, which set the club's market capitalisation value at approximately £902.2m.  The club made a pre-tax operating profit (excluding player transfers) of £62.7m in the year ending 31 May 2009, from a turnover of £313.3m.  , The largest shareholder on the Arsenal board is American sports tycoon Stan Kroenke , who launched a bid for the club in 2007,  and in November 2009 increased his holding to 18,594 shares (29.9%).  , A rival bid to Kroenke's came from Red & White Securities, which is co-owned by Russian billionaire Alisher Usmanov and Iranian London-based financier Farhad Moshiri .  Red & White launched its bid in August 2007, buying the stake held by former Arsenal vice-chairman David Dein , and as of October 2013 owned 18,671 shares (30%) in the club.  This led to press speculation of a bidding war between Kroenke and Usmanov.  However, Kroenke agreed not to purchase more than 29.9% of the club until at least September 2009,  while the rest of the board have first option on each other's shares until October 2012.  , As of October 2011, Kroenke owns 41,574 shares (66.82%) and Red & White Securities own 18,261 shares (29.35%).  Under company law Kroenke, as majority shareholder, is obliged to make an offer for the remaining shares in the club. , Ivan Gazidis has been the club's Chief Executive since 2009.  , Arsenal have appeared in a number of media "firsts". On 22 January 1927, their match at Highbury against Sheffield United was the first English League match to be broadcast live on radio.   A decade later, on 16 September 1937, an exhibition match between Arsenal's first team and the reserves was the first football match in the world to be televised live.   Arsenal also featured in the first edition of the BBC 's Match of the Day , which screened highlights of their match against Liverpool at Anfield on 22 August 1964.   BSkyB 's coverage of Arsenal's January 2010 match against Manchester United was the first live public broadcast of a sports event on 3D television .   , As one of the most successful teams in the country, Arsenal have often featured when football is depicted in the arts in Britain. They formed the backdrop to one of the earliest football-related films, The Arsenal Stadium Mystery (1939).  The film centres on a friendly match between Arsenal and an amateur side, one of whose players is poisoned while playing. Many Arsenal players appeared as themselves and manager George Allison was given a speaking part.  More recently, the book Fever Pitch by Nick Hornby was an autobiographical account of Hornby's life and relationship with football and Arsenal in particular. Published in 1992, it formed part of the revival and rehabilitation of football in British society during the 1990s.  The book was twice adapted for the cinema – the 1997 British film focuses on Arsenal's 1988–89 title win,  and a 2005 American version features a fan of baseball's Boston Red Sox .  , Arsenal have often been stereotyped as a defensive and "boring" side, especially during the 1970s and 1980s;   many comedians, such as Eric Morecambe , made jokes about this at the team's expense. The theme was repeated in the 1997 film The Full Monty , in a scene where the lead actors move in a line and raise their hands, deliberately mimicking the Arsenal defence's offside trap , in an attempt to co-ordinate their striptease routine.  Another film reference to the club's defence comes in the film Plunkett & Macleane , in which two characters are named Dixon and Winterburn after Arsenal's long-serving full backs – the right-sided Lee Dixon and the left-sided Nigel Winterburn .  , The 1991 television comedy sketch show Harry Enfield & Chums featured a sketch from the characters Mr Cholmondly-Warner and Grayson where the Arsenal team of 1933, featuring exaggerated parodies of fictitious amateur players take on the Liverpool team of 1991.  , In 1985, Arsenal founded a community scheme , "Arsenal in the Community", which offered sporting, social inclusion , educational and charitable projects. The club support a number of charitable causes directly and in 1992 established The Arsenal Charitable Trust, which by 2006 had raised more than £2 million for local causes.  An ex-professional and celebrity football team associated with the club also raised money by playing charity matches.  , In the 2009–10 season Arsenal announced that they had raised a record breaking £818,897 for the Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity . The original target was £500,000 but, thanks to the overwhelming support from fans, players, directors and staff, they were able to smash the target.  , Arsenal's tally of 13 League Championships is the third highest in English football, after Manchester United (20) and Liverpool (18),  with a record of 12 FA Cup titles.  Arsenal have achieved three League and FA Cup " Doubles " (in 1971, 1998 and 2002), a feat only previously achieved by Manchester United (in 1994, 1996 and 1999),   and in 1993 were the first side in English football to complete the FA Cup and League Cup double.  Arsenal were also the first London club to reach the final of the UEFA Champions League, in 2006, losing the final 2–1 to Barcelona .  , Arsenal have one of the best top-flight records in history, having finished below fourteenth only seven times. Arsenal also have the highest average league finishing position for the 20th century, with an average league placing of 8.5.  In addition, they are one of only six clubs to have won the FA Cup twice in succession, in 2002 and 2003, and 2014 and 2015.  Arsenal also hold the record for the longest unbeaten run in the Premier League at 49 games, and are the only team to have gone an entire Premier League season unbeaten in 2003–04.  , David O'Leary holds the record for Arsenal appearances, having played 722 first-team matches between 1975 and 1993. Fellow centre half and former captain Tony Adams comes second, having played 669 times. The record for a goalkeeper is held by David Seaman , with 564 appearances.  , Thierry Henry is the club's top goalscorer with 228 goals in all competitions between 1999 and 2012,  having surpassed Ian Wright 's total of 185 in October 2005.  Wright's record had stood since September 1997, when he overtook the longstanding total of 178 goals set by winger Cliff Bastin in 1939.  Henry also holds the club record for goals scored in the League, with 175,  a record that had been held by Bastin until February 2006.  , Arsenal's record home attendance is 73,707, for a UEFA Champions League match against RC Lens on 25 November 1998 at Wembley Stadium , where the club formerly played home European matches because of the limits on Highbury's capacity. The record attendance for an Arsenal match at Highbury is 73,295, for a 0–0 draw against Sunderland on 9 March 1935,  while that at Emirates Stadium is 60,161, for a 2–2 draw with Manchester United on 3 November 2007.  , Arsenal have also set records in English football, including the most consecutive seasons spent in the top flight (87 as of 2013–14) and the longest run of unbeaten League matches (49 between May 2003 and October 2004).  This included all 38 matches of their title-winning 2003–04 season, when Arsenal became only the second club to finish a top-flight campaign unbeaten, after Preston North End (who played only 22 matches) in 1888–89 .  , Arsenal also set a Champions League record during the 2005–06 season by going ten matches without conceding a goal, beating the previous best of seven set by A.C. Milan . They went a record total stretch of 995 minutes without letting an opponent score; the streak ended in the final , when Samuel Eto'o scored a 76th-minute equaliser for Barcelona.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , There have been eighteen permanent and five caretaker managers of Arsenal since the appointment of the club's first professional manager, Thomas Mitchell in 1897.  The club's longest-serving manager, in terms of both length of tenure and number of games overseen, is Arsène Wenger , who was appointed in 1996.   Wenger is also Arsenal's only manager from outside the United Kingdom.  Two Arsenal managers have died in the job – Herbert Chapman and Tom Whittaker .  , Arsenal Ladies are the women's football club affiliated to Arsenal. Founded in 1987, they turned semi-professional in 2002 and are managed by Clare Wheatley.  Arsenal Ladies are the most successful team in English women's football . In the 2008–09 season, they won all three major English trophies – the FA Women's Premier League , FA Women's Cup and FA Women's Premier League Cup ,  and, as of 2009, were the only English side to have won the UEFA Women's Cup , having done so in the 2006–07 season as part of a unique quadruple .  The men's and women's clubs are formally separate entities but have quite close ties; Arsenal Ladies are entitled to play once a season at the Emirates Stadium, though they usually play their home matches at Boreham Wood .  ,  Manchester City Football Club is a Premier League football club in Manchester , England . Founded in 1880 as St. Mark's (West Gorton) , they became Ardwick Association Football Club in 1887 and Manchester City in 1894. , The club has played at the City of Manchester Stadium since 2003, having played at Maine Road from 1923. The club's most successful period was in the late 1960s and early 1970s when they won the League Championship , FA Cup , League Cup and European Cup Winners' Cup under the management team of Joe Mercer and Malcolm Allison . , After losing the 1981 FA Cup Final , the club went through a period of decline, culminating in relegation to the third tier of English football for the only time in their history in 1998 . Having regained Premier League status, the club was purchased in 2008 by Abu Dhabi United Group and has become one of the wealthiest in the world. , In 2011, Manchester City qualified for the UEFA Champions League and won the FA Cup . The following year, they won the Premier League , their first league title for 44 years. In 2014, they won the League Cup and a second Premier League title. , , , City gained their first honours by winning the Second Division in 1899; with it came promotion to the highest level in English football, the First Division . They went on to claim their first major honour on 23 April 1904, beating Bolton Wanderers 1–0 at Crystal Palace to win the FA Cup ; City narrowly missed out on a League and Cup double that season after finishing runners-up in the League but City became the first club in Manchester to win a major honour.  In the seasons following the FA Cup triumph, the club was dogged by allegations of financial irregularities, culminating in the suspension of seventeen players in 1906, including captain Billy Meredith , who subsequently moved across town to Manchester United .  A fire at Hyde Road destroyed the main stand in 1920, and in 1923 the club moved to their new purpose-built stadium at Maine Road in Moss Side .  , In the 1930s, Manchester City reached two consecutive FA Cup finals, losing to Everton in 1933, before claiming the Cup by beating Portsmouth in 1934.  During the 1934 cup run, Manchester City broke the record for the highest home attendance of any club in English football history , as 84,569 fans packed Maine Road for a sixth round FA Cup tie against Stoke City in 1934 – a record which still stands to this day.  The club won the First Division title for the first time in 1937, but were relegated the following season, despite scoring more goals than any other team in the division.  Twenty years later, a City team inspired by a tactical system known as the Revie Plan reached consecutive FA Cup finals again, in 1955 and 1956; just as in the 1930s, they lost the first one, to Newcastle United , and won the second. The 1956 final , in which Manchester City beat Birmingham City 3–1, is one of the most famous finals of all-time, and is remembered for City goalkeeper Bert Trautmann continuing to play on after unknowingly breaking his neck.  , After relegation to the Second Division in 1963, the future looked bleak with a record low home attendance of 8,015 against Swindon Town in January 1965.  In the summer of 1965, the management team of Joe Mercer and Malcolm Allison was appointed. In the first season under Mercer, City won the Second Division title and made important signings in Mike Summerbee and Colin Bell .  Two seasons later, in 1967–68 , Manchester City claimed the League Championship for the second time, clinching the title on the final day of the season with a 4–3 win at Newcastle United and beating their close neighbours Manchester United into second place.  Further trophies followed: City won the FA Cup in 1969 , before achieving European success by winning the European Cup Winners' Cup in 1970, beating Górnik Zabrze 2–1 in Vienna .  City also won the League Cup that season, becoming the second English team to win a European trophy and a domestic trophy in the same season. , The club continued to challenge for honours throughout the 1970s, finishing one point behind the league champions on two occasions and reaching the final of the 1974 League Cup.  One of the matches from this period that is most fondly remembered by supporters of Manchester City is the final match of the 1973–74 season against arch-rivals Manchester United , who needed to win to have any hope of avoiding relegation. Former United player Denis Law scored with a backheel to give City a 1–0 win at Old Trafford and confirm the relegation of their rivals.   The final trophy of the club's most successful period was won in 1976, when Newcastle United were beaten 2–1 in the League Cup final. , A long period of decline followed the success of the 1960s and 1970s. Malcolm Allison rejoined the club to become manager for the second time in 1979, but squandered large sums of money on unsuccessful signings, such as Steve Daley .  A succession of managers then followed – seven in the 1980s alone. Under John Bond , City reached the 1981 FA Cup final but lost in a replay to Tottenham Hotspur . The club were twice relegated from the top flight in the 1980s (in 1983 and 1987), but returned to the top flight again in 1989 and finished fifth in 1991 and 1992 under the management of Peter Reid .  However, this was only a temporary respite, and following Reid's departure Manchester City's fortunes continued to fade. City were co-founders of the Premier League upon its creation in 1992, but after finishing ninth in its first season they endured three seasons of struggle before being relegated in 1996. After two seasons in Division One, City fell to the lowest point in their history, becoming the second ever European trophy winners to be relegated to their country's third league tier, after 1. FC Magdeburg of Germany . , After relegation, the club underwent off-the-field upheaval, with new chairman David Bernstein introducing greater fiscal discipline.  Under manager Joe Royle , City were promoted at the first attempt, achieved in dramatic fashion in a play-off against Gillingham . A second successive promotion saw City return to the top division, but this proved to have been a step too far for the recovering club, and in 2001 City were relegated once more. Kevin Keegan replaced Royle as manager in the close season, and achieved an immediate return to the top division as the club won the 2001–02 Division One championship, breaking club records for the number of points gained and goals scored in a season in the process.  The 2002–03 season was the last at Maine Road, and included a 3–1 derby victory over rivals Manchester United, ending a run of 13 years without a derby win.  City also qualified for European competition for the first time in 25 years. In the 2003 close season the club moved to the new City of Manchester Stadium . The first four seasons at the stadium all resulted in mid-table finishes. Former England manager Sven-Göran Eriksson became the club's first manager from overseas when appointed in 2007.  After a bright start performances faded in the second half of the season, and Eriksson was sacked in June 2008.  Eriksson was replaced by Mark Hughes two days later on 4 June 2008.  , By 2008, the club was in a financially precarious position. Thaksin Shinawatra had taken control of the club a year before, but his political travails saw his assets frozen.  Then, in August 2008, the club was purchased by the Abu Dhabi United Group . The takeover was immediately followed by a flurry of bids for high-profile players; the club broke the British transfer record by signing Brazilian international Robinho from Real Madrid for £32.5 million.  Performances were not a huge improvement on the previous season despite the influx of money however, with the team finishing tenth, although they did well to reach the quarter-finals of the UEFA Cup . During the summer of 2009, the club took transfer spending to an unprecedented level, with an outlay of over £100 million on players Gareth Barry , Roque Santa Cruz , Kolo Touré , Emmanuel Adebayor , Carlos Tevez and Joleon Lescott .  In December 2009, Mark Hughes – who had been hired shortly before the change in ownership but was originally retained by the new board – was replaced as manager by Roberto Mancini .  City finished the season in fifth position in the Premier League, narrowly missing out on a place in the Champions League, and competed in the UEFA Europa League in season 2010–11 . , Continued investment in players followed in successive seasons, and results began to match the upturn in player quality. City reached the 2011 FA Cup Final , their first major final in over thirty years, after defeating derby rivals Manchester United in the semi-final,  the first time they had knocked their rival out of a cup competition since 1975. They defeated Stoke City 1–0 in the final, securing their fifth FA Cup, the club's first major trophy since winning the 1976 League Cup . In the same week, the club qualified for the UEFA Champions League for the first time since 1968 with a 1–0 Premier League win over Tottenham Hotspur .  On the last day of the 2010–11 season, City passed Arsenal for third place in the Premier League, thereby securing qualification directly into the Champions League group stage. , Strong performances continued to follow in the 2011–12 season, with the club beginning the following season in commanding form, including beating Tottenham 5–1 at White Hart Lane and humbling Manchester United by a 6–1 scoreline in United's own stadium. Although the strong form waned half-way through the season, and City at one point fell eight points behind their arch rivals with only six games left to play, a slump by United allowed the blue side of Manchester to draw back level with two games to go, setting up a thrilling finale to the season with both teams going into the last day equal on points. Despite City only needing a home win against a team in the relegation zone, they fell a goal behind by the end of normal time, leading some of United's players to finish their game celebrating in the belief that they had won the league. Two goals in injury time – including one scored almost five minutes after normal time had elapsed – resulted in an almost-literal last-minute title victory, City's first in 44 years, and became only the fifth team to win the Premier League since its creation in 1992. In the aftermath that followed, the event was described by media sources from the UK and around the world as the greatest moment in Premier League history.   The game was also notable for former player Joey Barton 's sending off, where he committed three separate red card-able incidents on three different players in the space of only a few seconds, resulting in a 12-game ban.  , The following season City failed to capitalise on the gains made in the first two full seasons of Mancini's reign. While City rarely seemed likely to drop below second in the table, they posed little title challenge all season. In the UEFA Champions League , the club was eliminated at the group stage for a second successive season, while a second FA Cup final in three seasons ended in a 1–0 defeat to relegated Wigan Athletic .  Mancini was dismissed two days later, ostensibly as he had failed to reach his targets for the season,  but BBC sports editor David Bond reported that he had been sacked for his poor communication and relationships with players and executives.  In his place was appointed the Chilean Manuel Pellegrini .  In Pellegrini's first season, City won the League Cup  and regained the Premier League title on the last day of the season.  , L1 = Level 1 of the football league system; L2 = Level 2 of the football league system; L3 = Level 3 of the football league system. , Manchester City's home colours are sky blue and white. Traditional away kit colours have been either maroon or (from the 1960s) red and black; however, in recent years several different colours have been used. The origins of the club's home colours are unclear, but there is evidence that the club has worn blue since 1892 or earlier. A booklet entitled Famous Football Clubs – Manchester City published in the 1940s indicates that West Gorton (St. Marks) originally played in scarlet and black, and reports dating from 1884 describe the team wearing black jerseys bearing a white cross, showing the club's origins as a church side.  The red and black away colours come from former assistant manager Malcolm Allison , who believed that adopting the colours of A.C. Milan would inspire City to glory.  Allison's theory worked, with City winning the 1969 FA Cup Final , 1970 League Cup Final and the 1970 European Cup Winners' Cup Final in red and black stripes as opposed to the club's home kit of sky blue. , The current club badge was adopted in 1997 as a result of the previous badge being ineligible for registration as a trademark. The badge is based on the arms of the city of Manchester , and consists of a shield in front of a golden eagle . The eagle is an old heraldic symbol of the city of Manchester; a golden eagle was added to the city's badge in 1958 (but has since been removed), representing the growing aviation industry. The shield features a ship on its upper half representing the Manchester Ship Canal , and three diagonal stripes in the lower half symbolise the city's three rivers – the Irwell , the Irk and the Medlock . The bottom of the badge bears the motto Superbia in Proelio , which translates as Pride in Battle in Latin . Above the eagle and shield are three stars, which are purely decorative. , City have previously worn two other badges on their shirts. The first, introduced in 1970, was based on designs which had been used on official club documentation since the mid-1960s. It consisted of a circular badge which used the same shield as the current badge, inside a circle bearing the name of the club. In 1972, this was replaced by a variation which replaced the lower half of the shield with the red rose of Lancashire. On occasions when Manchester City plays in a major cup final, the usual badge has not been used; instead shirts bearing a badge of the arms of the City of Manchester are used, as a symbol of pride in representing the city of Manchester at a major event. This practice originates from a time when the players' shirts did not normally bear a badge of any kind, but has continued throughout the history of the club.  For the 2011 FA Cup Final, City used the usual badge with a special legend, but the Manchester coat of arms was included as a small monochrome logo in the numbers on the back of players' shirts.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Manchester City's reserve team, which the club terms the Elite Development Squad (EDS) , plays in the Barclays Under 21 Premier League and a number of local cup competitions. The following EDS players have made first-team appearances for the club. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , 23 Marc-Vivien Foé , Midfielder (2002–03) – posthumous honour . , Since 2003, Manchester City have not issued the squad number 23. It was retired in memory of Marc-Vivien Foé , who was on loan to the club from Lyon at the time of his death on the field of play whilst playing for Cameroon in the 2003 Confederations Cup .  , The following former Manchester City players and managers are inductees in the Manchester City F.C. Hall of Fame ,  and are listed according to the year of their induction: , The following former Manchester City players and managers are inductees in the English Football Hall of Fame (a.k.a. the National Football Museum Hall of Fame ) and are listed according to the year of their induction within the various categories: , The following former Manchester City players and managers are inductees in the Scottish Football Hall of Fame (a.k.a. the Scottish Football Museum Hall of Fame ) and are listed according to the year of their induction within the various categories: , The following former Manchester City players are inductees in the Welsh Sports Hall of Fame and are listed according to the year of their induction: , Manchester City has a large fanbase in relation to its comparative lack of success on the pitch. Since moving to the City of Manchester Stadium, Manchester City's average attendances have been in the top six in England,  usually in excess of 40,000. Even in the late 1990s, when the club were relegated twice in three seasons and playing in the third tier of English football (then Division Two, now Football League One ), home attendances were in the region of 30,000, compared to an average for the division of fewer than 8,000.  Research carried out by Manchester City in 2005 estimates a fanbase of 886,000 in the United Kingdom and a total in excess of 2 million worldwide, although since the purchase of the club by Sheikh Mansour and the club's recent trophies, that figure has ballooned to many times that size.  , Manchester City's officially recognised supporters club is the Manchester City FC Supporters Club (1949), formed from a merger of two existing organisations in 2010: the Official Supporters Club (OSC) and the Centenary Supporters Association (CSA).  There have been several fanzines published by supporters; the longest running is King of the Kippax and it is the only one still published.  The City fans' song of choice is a rendition of " Blue Moon ", which despite its melancholic theme is belted out with gusto as though it were a heroic anthem. City supporters tend to believe that unpredictability is an inherent trait of their team, and label unexpected results "typical City".   Events that fans regard as "typical City" include City's being the only reigning English champions ever to be relegated (in 1938), the only team to score and concede over 100 goals in the same season (1957–58),  or the more recent example that City were the only team to beat Chelsea in the 2004–05 Premier League, yet in the same season City were knocked out of the FA Cup by Oldham Athletic , a team two divisions lower. , Manchester City's biggest rivalry is with neighbours Manchester United , against whom they contest the Manchester derby . Before the Second World War, when travel to away games was rare, many Mancunian football fans regularly watched both teams even if considering themselves "supporters" of only one. This practice continued into the early 1960s but as travel became easier, and the cost of entry to matches rose, watching both teams became unusual and the rivalry intensified. A common stereotype is that City fans come from Manchester proper, while United fans come from elsewhere. A 2002 report by a researcher at Manchester Metropolitan University found that while it was true that a higher proportion of City season ticket holders came from Manchester postcode areas (40% compared to United's 29%), there were more United season ticket holders, the lower percentage being due to United's higher overall number of season ticket holders (27,667 compared to City's 16,481); not highlighted in the report was that within the City of Manchester itself, there were more City season ticket holders (approximately 4 for every 3 United). The report noted that since the compiling of data in 2001, the number of both City and United season ticket holders had risen; expansion of United's ground and City's move to the City of Manchester Stadium have caused season ticket sales to increase further.  , In the late 1980s, City fans started a craze of bringing inflatable objects to matches, primarily oversized bananas. One disputed explanation for the craze is that in a match against West Bromwich Albion chants from fans calling for the introduction of Imre Varadi as a substitute mutated into "Imre Banana". Terraces packed with inflatable-waving supporters became a frequent sight in the 1988–89 season as the craze spread to other clubs (inflatable fish were seen at Grimsby Town ), with the phenomenon reaching a peak at City's match at Stoke City on 26 December 1988, a match declared by fanzines as a fancy dress party.  In August 2006, the club became the first to be officially recognised as a "gay-friendly" employer by campaign group Stonewall (UK) .  In 2010, City supporters adopted an exuberant dance, dubbed The Poznań , from fans of Polish club Lech Poznań .   , The holding company of Manchester City F.C., Manchester City Limited, is a private limited company , with approximately 54 million shares in issue. The club has been in private hands since 2007, when the major shareholders agreed to sell their holdings to UK Sports Investments Limited (UKSIL), a company controlled by former Thailand prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra . UKSIL then made a formal offer to buy the shares held by several thousand small shareholders. , Prior to the Thaksin takeover, the club was listed on the specialist independent equity market PLUS (formerly OFEX),  where it had been listed since 1995. On 6 July 2007, having acquired 75% of the shares, Thaksin de-listed the club and re-registered it as a private company.  By August UKSIL had acquired over 90% of the shares, and exercised its rights under the Companies Act to "squeeze out" the remaining shareholders, and acquire the entire shareholding. Thaksin Shinawatra became chairman of the club and two of Thaksin's children, Pintongta and Oak Chinnawat also became directors. Former chairman John Wardle stayed on the board for a year, but resigned in July 2008 following Nike executive Garry Cook's appointment as executive chairman in May.  The club made a pre-tax loss of £ 11m in the year ending 31 May 2007, the final year for which accounts were published as a public company.  , Thaksin's purchase prompted a period of transfer spending at the club,  spending in around £30 million,  whereas over the previous few seasons net spending had been among the lowest in the division. A year later, this investment was itself dwarfed by larger sums. On 1 September 2008, Abu Dhabi -based Abu Dhabi United Group Investment and Development Limited completed a takeover of Manchester City. The deal, worth a reported £200 million, was announced on the morning of 1 September. It sparked various transfer "deadline-day" rumours and bids such as the club's attempt to gazump Manchester United 's protracted bid to sign Dimitar Berbatov from Tottenham Hotspur for a fee in excess of £30 million.   Minutes before the transfer window closed, the club signed Robinho from Real Madrid for a British record transfer fee of £32.5 million.  The wealth of the new owners meant that in the summer of 2009, the club was able to finance the purchase of several experienced international players prior to the new season, spending more than any other club in the Premier League.  , Created in the 2013–14 season to manage the global footballing interests of Abu Dhabi United Group, the City Football Group is an umbrella corporation owning stakes in a network of global clubs for the purposes of resource sharing, academy networking and marketing. Through the City Football Group, City owns stakes in a number of clubs: , Manchester City's stadium is the City of Manchester Stadium , also known as Eastlands and the Etihad Stadium since July 2011 because of sponsorship commitments. The stadium is situated in East Manchester and is part of a 200-year operating lease from Manchester City Council after the 2002 Commonwealth Games . The stadium has been City's home since the end of the 2002–03 season, when the club moved from Maine Road .  Before moving to the stadium, Manchester City spent in excess of £30 million to convert it to football use. The field of play was lowered by several metres, adding another tier of seating around the entire pitch. A new North Stand was also built.  The inaugural match at the new stadium was a 2–1 win over FC Barcelona in a friendly match .  The current capacity as of summer 2013 stands at 47,405 after various stadium renovations under the new owners since 2008.  , Manchester City have used several grounds during their history: after playing home matches at five stadiums between 1880 and 1887, the club settled at Hyde Road Football Stadium , its home for 36 years.  After a fire destroyed the Main Stand in 1920, the club started to seek a new site and moved to the 84-000 capacity Maine Road three years later. Maine Road, nicknamed the "Wembley of the North" by its designers, hosted the largest-ever crowd at an English club ground when 84,569 attended an FA Cup tie against Stoke City on 3 March 1934.  Though Maine Road was redeveloped several times over its 80-year lifespan, by 1995 its capacity was restricted to 32,000, prompting the search for a new ground which culminated in the move to the City of Manchester Stadium in 2003. , ,  Fußballclub Gelsenkirchen-Schalke 04 e. V. , commonly known as FC Schalke 04 ( German: [ʔɛf t͡seː ˈʃalkə nʊl fiːɐ̯] ) or simply abbreviated as S04 ( German: [ˈʔɛs nʊl fiːɐ̯] ), is a professional German association-football club and multi- sports club originally from the Schalke district of Gelsenkirchen , North Rhine-Westphalia . Schalke has long been one of the most popular professional football teams and multi-sports club in Germany, even though major successes have been rare since the club's heyday in the 1930s and early 1940s. Schalke play in the Bundesliga , the top tier of the German football league system . The elite professionalism in association football team as of August 2014 is the biggest part of a large multi-sports club with 129,672 members (as of March 2014) making it the second-largest sports club in Germany and the third-largest sports club in the world in terms of membership, after the world’s second and first, rivals FC Bayern Munich and SL Benfica . Other activities offered by the club include athletics (track and field) , basketball , handball , table tennis , and winter sports . , Founded in 1904, Schalke have won seven German championships , five DFB-Pokals , one DFL-Supercup , and one UEFA Europa League . , Since 2001, Schalke's stadium is the Veltins-Arena . Schalke holds a long-standing rivalry with Ruhr neighbours Borussia Dortmund , arguably the most widespread and well-known rivalry in German football, and matches between the two teams are referred to as the Revierderby . The mascot of the club is named Erwin. , Schalke is currently ranked as the 9th best football team in Europe and on Continental Europe by UEFA 's UEFA club rankings .  , In terms of operating income , Schalke possesses the 7th highest operating income of any football club on Earth at "$ 64.4 million or £ 38.2 million (€ 48 million)",  and 0% debt as of August 2014.  S04 generates the 12th highest revenue of any football club in the world at "$ 265.6 million or £ 157.8 million (€ 198 million)".  , In May 2014, Schalke 04 were ranked by Forbes Magazine as the twelfth most valuable football club in the world ,  at " £ 355.3 million or $ 598.5 million ( € 446 million)", an increase of 16% from the previous year.  , , , The club was founded on 4 May 1904 as Westfalia Schalke by a group of high school students and first wore the colours red and yellow. The team was unable to gain admittance to the Westdeutscher Spielverband and played in one of the "wild associations" of early German football. In 1912, after years of failed attempts to join the official league, they merged with the gymnastic club Schalker Turnverein 1877 in order to facilitate their entry. This arrangement held up until 1915 when SV Westfalia Schalke was re-established as an independent club. The separation proved short-lived and the two came together again in 1919 as Turn- und Sportverein Schalke 1877 . The new club won its first honours in 1923 as champions of the Schalke Kreisliga . It was around this time that Schalke picked up the nickname Die Knappen – from an old German word for "miners"– because the team drew so many of its players and supporters from the coalmine workers of Gelsenkirchen. [ citation needed ] , In 1924, the football team parted ways with the gymnasts once again, this time taking the club chairman along with them. They took the name FC Schalke 04 and adopted the now familiar blue and white kit from which their second nickname would derive – Die Königsblauen (English: The Royal Blues). The following year, the club became the dominant local side, based on a style of play that used short, sharp, man-to-man passing to move the ball. This system would later become famous as the Schalker Kreisel (English: spinning top; gyroscope). In 1927, it carried them into the top-flight Gauliga Ruhr , onto the league championship, and then into the opening rounds of the national finals. [ citation needed ] , The popular club built a new stadium, the Glückauf-Kampfbahn, in 1928, and acknowledged the city's support by renaming themselves FC Gelsenkirchen-Schalke 04 . They won their first West German championship in 1929, but the following year were sanctioned for exceeding salary levels set by the league and, in an era that considered professionalism in sport to be anathema, found themselves banned from play for nearly half a year. , However, the ban had little impact on the team's popularity: in their first game after the ban against Fortuna Düsseldorf , in June 1931, the team drew 70,000 to its home ground. The club's fortunes begun to rise from 1931 and they made a semi-final appearance in the 1932 German championship , losing 1–2 to Eintracht Frankfurt . The year after , the club went all the way to the final, where Fortuna Düsseldorf proved the better side, winning 3–0.  , With the re-organisation of German football in 1933, under Nazi Germany , Schalke found themselves in the Gauliga Westfalen , one of sixteen top-flight divisions established to replace the innumerable regional and local leagues, all claiming top status. This league saw Schalke's most successful decade in their history: from 1933 to 1942 the club would appear in 14 of 18 national finals (10 in the German championship and 8 in the Tschammerpokal , the predecessor of today's DFB-Pokal ) and win their league in every one of its eleven seasons. , The club never lost a home game in Gauliga Westfalen in all these eleven seasons and only lost six away games, while remaining entirely unbeaten in the seasons 1935–36, 1936–37, 1937–38, 1938–39, 1940–41 and 1942–43; a clear sign of the club's dominance.  , Schalke's first national title came in 1934 with a 2–1 victory over favourites 1. FC Nuremberg . The next year , they successfully defended their title against VfB Stuttgart in a 6–4 win. The club missed the 1936 final, but would make appearances in the championship match in each of the next six years, coming away victorious in 1937 , 1939 , 1940 , and 1942 . Three of those national finals were against Austrian teams – Admira Wien , Rapid Wien , and First Vienna – which played in Germany's Gauliga Ostmark after Austria's incorporation into the Reich through the 1938 Anschluss . , Die Königsblauen also made frequent appearances in the final of the Tschammerpokal, but enjoyed much less success there. They lost the inaugural Tschammerpokal 0–2 to Nuremberg in 1935. They also made failed appearances in the 1936 , 1941 , and 1942 finals with their only victory coming in 1937 against Fortuna Düsseldorf . , Over a dozen seasons, from 1933 to 1945, Schalke won 162 of 189 Gauliga matches, drawing 21 and losing only 6. On the way, they scored 924 goals and gave up just 145. From 1935 to 1939, they did not lose a single league match. The club's dominance throughout this period led them to be held up for propaganda purposes by the Nazi regime, as an example of "new Germany". , With Germany in chaos towards the end of World War II , Schalke played just two matches in 1945. They resumed regular play following the war and, for a time, continued to compete as a strong side. They set a record in a national championship round match with a 20–0 drubbing of SpVgg Herten , but that spoke more to the weakened condition of German football than the ability of the team. Schalke's play fell off and the best they could manage in the new Oberliga West in 1947 was a sixth-place finish: within two years they slipped to 12th place. , It would take Schalke until the mid-50s to recover their form. They finished third in a tight three-way race for the 1954 Oberliga West title, decided on the last day of the season. The following year, they appeared in the DFB-Pokal final, where they lost 2–3 to Karlsruher SC . The club's next, and to date last, German championship came in 1958 , with a 3–0 victory over Hamburger SV . , Schalke continued to play well, delivering a number of top four finishes, in the years leading up to the 1963 formation of the Bundesliga , West Germany's new federal, professional league. Those results earned them selection as one of sixteen sides admitted to the top-flight league. , Their first years in the Bundesliga were difficult. In 1964–65 , they escaped relegation only through the expansion of the league to eighteen teams. A number of finishes at the lower end of the league table followed, before a marked improvement in 1971–72 , culminating in a second-place finish to FC Bayern Munich and after having led the league for much of the season. In the same season, Schalke won the DFB-Pokal for the second time in its history. , Despite their improved results, the seeds of a major reversal had already been sown. A number of the team's players and officials were accused of accepting bribes as part of the widespread Bundesliga scandal of 1971 . Investigation showed that Schalke had deliberately played to lose their 17 May, 28th-round match against Arminia Bielefeld by a score of 0–1. As a result, several Schalke players were banned for life, including three — Klaus Fischer , "Stan" Libuda and Klaus Fichtel — who were with the German national team of the time. [ citation needed ] , Even though the penalties were later commuted to bans ranging from six months to two years, the scandal had a profound effect on what might have possibly become one of the dominant German teams of the 1970s. [ citation needed ] , In 1973, the club moved to the Parkstadion , newly built for the 1974 FIFA World Cup and having a capacity of 70,000 spectators. In the wake of the scandal, the club's performance was uneven. They managed another second-place result in 1976–77 , finishing just one point behind champions Borussia Mönchengladbach . , In the early 1980s Die Knappen ran into trouble and found themselves relegated to the second division of the Bundesliga for the 1981–82 season and, after promotion, again in 1983–84. They returned to the top flight in 1984 but slipped once more to the second tier in 1988. They returned to the Bundesliga in the 1991–92 season and have stayed in the top flight ever since. , The club earned their first honours since the DFB-Pokal win of 1972 with a victory in the final of the 1996–97 UEFA Cup over Italian side Internazionale on penalties. Coached by the Dutch coach Huub Stevens , the 1997 Schalke squad earned the nickname "Euro Fighters", which is still in use among fans. Stevens, who was widely unknown in Germany at the time, quickly earned himself a cult following among the Schalke supporters. , Stevens successfully implemented a system of rigid discipline, especially in the defence. His Motto Die Null muß stehen. (engl.: 'It has to read nil'), emphasising the importance of not conceding any goals, has found its way into everyday language in Germany. , The turn of the millennium has seen much stronger performances from Schalke. During the 1990s and early 2000, the club underwent a successful transformation into a modern, commercial sports organisation and established itself as one of the dominant teams of the Bundesliga. Schalke captured consecutive DFB-Pokals in 2000–01 and 2001–02 , and earned second-place finishes in the Bundesliga in 2000–01 , 2004–05 and 2006–07 . The 2000–01 season finish was heartbreaking for Schalke's supporters as it took a goal in the 4th minute of injury time by Bayern Munich away to Hamburg to snatch the title from Die Königsblauen . , The last few years have been more successful for Schalke, who finished in the second place in 2005, a result that led to Schalke making its second appearance in the UEFA Champions League . There, Schalke finished in third place during the group stage and continuing into the UEFA Cup , where they were eliminated by the eventual winners Sevilla in the semi-finals. In 2005–06 , Schalke finished in fourth place in the Bundesliga and a year later they once again finished as runners-up for the third time in seven seasons. , In the 2007–08 season, Schalke progressed past the Champions League group stage for the first time and advanced to the quarter-finals after beating FC Porto on penalties in the round of 16. They were stopped by FC Barcelona in the quarter-finals, losing both home and away games 0–1. , On 9 October 2006, Russian oil company Gazprom became the club's new sponsor. The company stated it expects to invest as much as €125 million in the club over a five-and-a-half year period.  Gazprom's sponsorship has been seen by some analysts as a politically motivated attempt to buy friendship in Germany.  Within this sponsorship, Schalke 04 and Zenit Saint Petersburg signed a "partnership agreement." Both clubs intend to work closely on improving football-related issues. , On 13 April 2008, the club announced the dismissal of manager Mirko Slomka after a heavy defeat at the hands of Werder Bremen and elimination from the Champions League . Former players Mike Büskens and Youri Mulder were put in charge of the first team on an interim basis. , For the 2008–09 Bundesliga season , Schalke signed a new head coach, Fred Rutten , previously the manager of Dutch team FC Twente . Rutten signed a contract running until June 2010.  In March 2009, Rutten was sacked and, once more, Mike Büskens, Youri Mulder and Oliver Reck took over the helm. , On 1 July 2009, Felix Magath , who had led VfL Wolfsburg to the top of the table in the Bundesliga, became Head Coach and General Manager of the Königsblauen. The appointment of Magath as manager coincided with a multi-million euro spending spree, allowing Schalke to acquire internationally known forwards Klaas-Jan Huntelaar and Raúl . Magath's tenure at the club was initially successful, seeing the side score a glut of goals in the first few months of the season, though defensive frailties and Magath's questionable squad selection had made him unpopular with Schalke supporters by December 2010. On 16 March 2011, Magath was sacked and replaced with Ralf Rangnick , who previously, between 2004 and 2005, had a brief spell being in charge of the team. Within just weeks of his appointment, Rangnick masterminded a 5–2 victory over Italian club Internazionale at the San Siro during the quarter-finals of the Champions League. Schalke advanced to the semi-final where they lost 2–0 to Manchester United in the first leg and 4–1 in the second leg.  , On 22 September 2011, Ralf Rangnick announced his immediate resignation as head coach of Schalke 04 due to long-term exhaustion .  Assistant coach Seppo Eichkorn coached the team as Interim Manager until the appointment of Huub Stevens on 27 September 2011. Stevens' contract is to run until 30 June 2013.  , Despite having legendary status among Schalke supporters, Stevens' return to Schalke was met with some scepticism as fans feared that Stevens, who coached Schalke to the 1997 UEFA Cup win with a rigidly defensive system, could ditch Rangnicks system of attacking play in favour of returning to the 1997 defensive antics.  The doubts of the supporters proved unfounded. Although Schalke played a somewhat inconsistent season, they reached third place in the Bundesliga and therefore direct qualification for the UEFA Champions League. , Schalke had an excellent start to the 2012–13 Bundesliga season , and worked their way to second place in the league by November, just behind Bayern Munich . On 20 October, Schalke traveled to Borussia Dortmund for Matchday 8, and were able to defeat the home side 2–1 to secure their first league Revierderby win since February 2010 while securing a UEFA Champions League place by finishing fourth. , In the 2013–14 UEFA Champions League group stage, S04's opponents were Steaua Bucharest, FC Basel, and Chelsea. Schalke finished the group stage in second place and exited in the round of sixteen to Real Madrid. , The most prominent S04 addition was the arrival of Kevin-Prince Boateng at S04.  After a disappointing first round of the 2013–14 Bundesliga that saw S04 in seventh place in the Bundesliga table as well as an early exit from the 2013–14 DFB-Pokal in the first knockout round, S04 played their most successful season second half of the club's history. The season was marked by a lot of injuries to key squad players such as Jefferson Farfán and Klaas-Jan Huntelaar for almost the entire season and this explains the cruising that S04 handed to Real Madrid in the 2013–14 UEFA Champions League round of sixteen. It also led to performance related discussions about head coach Jens Keller. Partially, S04 fielded up to ten young players with potential who played in the S04 youth system throughout the season. Among the brightest S04 young player discoveries of the 2013–14 season were Max Meyer and Leon Goretzka. The young S04 squad won 11 out of 17 games in which S04 retrieved 36 points. At the end of the 2013–14 season, the young S04 squad reached the third place in the league table and thus for the third time in a row qualified for the UEFA Champions League, in which is a feat that S04 have never before achieved. , On 7 October 2014, after a 1–2 defeat to TSG 1899 Hoffenheim and merely eight points in seven games, Keller was sacked and succeeded by Roberto Di Matteo.  , , The headline sponsors of FC Schalke 04 are the China-based electronics manufacturer Hisense and the Russia-based hydrocarbon giant Gazprom .  Additional sponsors include the Germany-based insurance group ERGO Insurance Group ; the Germany-based automotive manufacturer Volkswagen Group ; the China-based telecommunications company Huawei ; the cyber gambling and sports betting company bet-at-home.com ; the beverage company Coca-Cola ; the Germany-based brewery Veltins ; and the S04 current squad kit manufacturer Germany-based Adidas .  , In terms of operating income , S04 possesses the 7th highest operating income of any football club on Earth at "$ 64.4 million or £ 38.2 million (€ 48 million)",  and 0% debt as of August 2014.  S04 generates the 12th highest revenue of any football club in the world at "$ 265.6 million or £ 157.8 million (€ 198 million)".  , In May 2014, Schalke 04 were ranked by Forbes Magazine as the twelfth richest football club in the world ,  at " £ 355.3 million or $ 598.5 million ( € 446 million)", an increase of 16% from the previous year.  , As of 21 June 2015 [update]  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , As of 6 February 2015 [update] , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , In the year 2000, the supporters voted for Schalker Jahrhundertelf , the "Team of the Century":  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , [ citation needed ] , Schalke's stadium, known as the Veltins-Arena under a sponsorship agreement with Veltins brewery, was completed in the summer of 2001 and has a capacity of 61,673 spectators. Schalke regularly draws sell-out crowds to what is widely regarded as one of the most modern and best multi-use facilities in Europe. The facility was previously known as the Arena AufSchalke and replaced the Parkstadion (capacity of 62,000) built in 1973. Prior to this the club had played its matches in the Glückauf-Kampfbahn constructed in 1928 with a capacity of 35,000. The facility was used for amateur matches during its latter years with a reduced capacity of just 5,000. , The number of members of Schalke 04 grew from 10,000 in 1991 to 129,672 in 2014. This figure makes Schalke 04 the second-biggest sports club in Germany and third-biggest sports club in the world behind second placed FC Bayern Munich and first placed SL Benfica. FC Schalke 04 has the fourth largest fan-base of any other team in the world. S04 is currently ranked as the 9th best football team in Europe and on Continental Europe by UEFA 's UEFA club rankings .  A representation of the Schalke 04 membership structure in 2014 showed, among other things, a female share of 20% and a share of the age group up to 10 years of 14%.  Around 30% of the members were not from North Rhine-Westphalia. Apart from Gelsenkirchen (10,197 members) and its immediate neighboring towns the members of Schalke 04 also come from more distant cities such as Cologne (1117), Berlin (932) and Dortmund (800).  This high growth in Schalke 04 membership is also promoted by promotions of Schalke 04, as from 2013 to further "advertise Schalke 04 brand".   , On 21 August 2013, S04 played their first home game, a 2013–14 UEFA Champions League qualifier at the Veltins-Arena against the Greek runners-up (coached by former coach Hub Stevens), drawing 1–1.  The match and the result was more than overshadowed by a controversial police operations in the block of the "S04 Ultras Gelsenkirchen" block of the Veltins-Arena against the fans of the away team with nearly 80 injured of the PAOK away team's fans injured.  The return match was won 3–2 by Schalke without any of their supporters allowed to spectate the match.  , Schalke 04 Fan Club Association (SFCV) as an umbrella organization, according to his own statement has an estimated 1500 fan clubs.  Of the listed by the SFCV, 860 S04 fan clubs (October 2012) in which an estimated 200 were in Ruhr, 360 in the rest of North Rhine-Westphalia, and 300 in the other federal states.  A member of the board of SFCV has a permanent seat on the board of FC Schalke 04 and in 2013 SFCV merged with the "Ultras Gelsenkirchen" and later the supporters' club, Schalke Fan-Initiative eV with several members of strong fan groups from the SFCV, as is clear from the merger of the SFCV with the fan section of S04 has not adequately represented the fan interests.   , The fan-base of Schalke is friendly connected with the supporters of the 1. FC Nürnberg and the Dutch club FC Twente . The friendship with Nürnberg is the oldest connection between two fan-bases in Germany. Before a match between both clubs, the official club songs are played. , The Ultras have also a friendship with the supporters of the Macedonian club Vardar Skopje . , Popular unofficial chants are , Schalke has been subject of a feature-length film called Fußball ist unser Leben ("Football is our life"), shown in 1999. Actors Uwe Ochsenknecht and Ralf Richter , both of whom were in the award-winning film Das Boot played the main roles, while many persons associated with Schalke had cameo roles, such as manager Rudi Assauer , coaches Huub Stevens and Helmut Schulte, and player Yves Eigenrauch. Also featured were prominent fans like Manfred Breuckmann, Ulrich Potofski or DJ Hooligan.  The film is a comedy about "Hans", a Schalke fanatic, and his three pals who somehow get involved in kidnapping and trying to bring back to form the team's new star player "Di Ospeo" and in the process bet Hans' house that their idol will score in the final game.  Some critics considered Football is our life to be "one of the worst German comedies ever."  , "Schalke" is mentioned in the film Das Boot when the bosun tells the crew in their ward room, "I got bad news for you men. Schalke lost 5–0, looks like we won't be in the final this year." , German Championship , DFB-Pokal/German Cup , DFB-Ligapokal/German League Cup , DFL-Supercup/German Super Cup , 2. Bundesliga , Western German football championship , Gauliga Westfalen/West German League , Oberliga West/West German Championship , Westphalia Cup/West German Cup , UEFA Europa League , UEFA Champions League , UEFA Cup Winners Cup , UEFA Intertoto Cup , Coppa delle Alpi , UEFA Youth League , Under 19 Bundesliga , Under 19 Bundesliga West , Under 17 Bundesliga , Under 17 Bundesliga West , As of 26 May 2015 [update] , In women's football , FC Schalke 04 have achieved some notable successes in the late seventies and early eighties of the 20th century. The S04 women's team was five times Westphalia champion and twice cup winners as well as competing in the German Championship and in the DFB Cup ended up being each in the first round. Mid-nineteen eighties, the S04 women's team was dissolved. Since the 2007–08 season, S04 is cooperating with the women footballers of the second division 1 FFC Recklinghausen.  , The basketball department of FC Schalke 04 played in the 1988–89 season in the National Basketball League Basketball Bundesliga and from 2004 for several seasons in the ProA , the second highest basketball league in Germany.  2009 saw the Schalke 04 voluntary withdrawal of Schalke 04 from the ProA. Currently, the Schalke 04 basketball department competes in the 1 Regionalliga West.  , The handball department of FC Schalke 04 was founded in 1926. In 1929 it competed in the Gaumeister prior to competing in the Gauliga until the end of the Third Reich , the then top division. After the Second World War, except for a few years in the league, the S04 handball department did not build on the successes. Currently the S04 handball department competes in the national league.  , The athletics (track and field) department of FC Schalke 04 was founded in 1922. Famous members were multiple German champion in sprint such as Erika Rost; and the winner of the silver medal in the decathlon at the 1996 Olympic Games , Frank Busemann ; and the 2003 European Athletics Junior Championships gold in 200 metres , Sebastian Ernst .  , The table tennis department of FC Schalke 04 was founded in 1947. In the 1952–53 season, the FC Schalke 04 table tennis department competed for a year in the big leagues, up unto the foundation of the table tennis Bundesliga in 1966, the top division in Germany. In the 2013–14 season S04 table tennis department competed in the Westphalia district league. The FC Schalke 04 table tennis department women's team was one of the early participants in the 1950s in the national league, until it was withdrawn in 1956.  ,  Sporting Clube de Portugal , OM , ComC , MHIH   ( Portuguese pronunciation:  [ˈspɔɾtĩŋ ˈkluβ(ɨ) ðɨ puɾtuˈɣaɫ] ) ( Euronext :  SCP ) or Sporting CP (often colloquially known as Sporting in Lusophone countries and as Sporting Lisbon in Anglophone countries) are a Portuguese sports club based in Lisbon .    Although they compete in a number of different sports, Sporting are best known for their association football team. , Founded in Lisbon on 1 July 1906, they are one of the "Três Grandes" ( The Big Three ) football clubs in Portugal. With 120,000 club members,   their teams, athletes and supporters are often nicknamed Leões (English: Lions) by their fans. , Sporting were a founding member of the Primeira Liga and, together with Benfica and FC Porto , have never been relegated from the First Division of Portuguese football since the league's establishment in 1934. Sporting are the third most successful Portuguese football club, with forty-five titles in Portuguese competitions and one international title, the 1963–64 European Cup Winners' Cup . Domestically, they have won eighteen Primeira Liga titles, sixteen Portuguese Cups (six doubles ), four Championship of Portugal titles (a record tied with Porto) and seven Portuguese SuperCup titles. , Sporting Clube de Portugal are ranked thirty-third in UEFA club rankings .  , , , The UEFA Cup Winners' Cup 1963-1964 was won by Sporting Clube de Portugal, who defeated MTK Budapest of Hungary in the final. It was the only time a Portuguese team side won a UEFA Cup Winners' Cup trophy.  , Sporting CP entered the competition defeating Atalanta in the qualifying round, then past APOEL F.C. (in what was the biggest win in a single UEFA competitions game to date: 16–1), Manchester United , Olympique Lyonnais and in the end defeated MTK Budapest in a two round final to win their first European title. , Sporting also reached a second European final, being runners-up in the 2005 UEFA Cup Final against PFC CSKA Moscow . , Sporting reached three other European semi-finals. In both the Cup Winners Cup of 1974 and the UEFA Cup of 1991,  it lost to the eventual winners of the competition. In 2012 , Sporting reached their fifth European semi-final in its history, losing to Athletic Bilbao of Spain in the UEFA Europa League . , Within Portugal, Sporting Clube de Portugal is often referred to simply as " Sporting ". Outside Portugal, it is often known as " Sporting Lisbon ". The club has attempted to shed this name, particularly through ex-president Sousa Cintra and his staff, in an effort to become known abroad by its correct name. Despite this, some non-Portuguese media still uses Sporting Lisbon due to precedent and to avoid confusion with other clubs such as Sporting Clube de Braga , Sporting Clube da Covilhã , Sporting Clube Farense , Sporting Clube Olhanense and Sporting de Gijón . UEFA has historically used the designation Sporting CP in English-language scorelines and match reports on its own site, but as of January 2010 uses the club's full Portuguese name. , Since its formation, on 1 July 1906, Sporting has had six badges, all of which have included the colour green and the lion. , Sporting's stadium, Estádio José Alvalade , was built for the UEFA Euro 2004 championship. The stadium was designed by Tomás Taveira and was classified by UEFA as a five-star stadium, enabling it to host finals of major UEFA events. This stadium has a capacity of 50,095 spectators.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , (Whilst playing for Sporting CP) , Golden Ball , Silver Ball , Bronze Ball , FIFA 100  , The 100 Greatest Players of the 20th Century  , The Portuguese League top scorer was awarded the Silver Shoe from 1934-35 until 1951-52. Since the 1952–53 season the sports newspaper A Bola awards the Silver Ball prize.  , The Player of the Year award is named after former player Francisco Stromp, and was instituted from 1992. The list below is a list of winners of the award.  , For details on former coaches, see List of Sporting Clube de Portugal managers . , As of 24 October 2012.  , Directive Board , Others , Leões de Portugal  , Sporting Clube de Portugal has various sports departments. , Extinct sections  Football Club Shakhtar Donetsk ( Ukrainian : Футбольний клуб «Шахта́р» Доне́цьк [fudˈbɔlʲnɪj klub ʃɐxˈtɑr doˈnɛt͡sʲk] ) is a Ukrainian professional football club from the city of Donetsk . , Shakhtar has appeared in several European competitions and is often a participant of the UEFA Champions League. The club became the first club in independent Ukraine to win the UEFA Cup in 2009 , the last year before the competition was revamped as the Europa League. FC Shakhtar Donetsk is one of two Ukrainian clubs, the other one is Dynamo Kyiv , who have won a major UEFA competition. The club normally plays its home matches at the Donbass Arena . However, because of the conflict in Eastern Ukraine , this season home games are being played more than 600 miles to the west in Arena Lviv .  Shakhtar Donetsk is Ukraine's second most popular football club.  The club is the sole favorite of football fans in the Donbas .  , The club draws its history from the very start of the Soviet football league competitions and is one of the oldest clubs in Ukraine. The club was a member of the Soviet Voluntary Sports Society of Shakhtyor, having connections with other Soviet teams from Karaganda ( Kazakhstan ), Soligorsk ( Belarus ), among others. In the late Soviet period, Shakhtar was considered a tough mid-table club of the Soviet Top League and a cup competition specialist after winning the Soviet Cup two years in a row in 1961 and 1962. , The team has played under the following names: Stakhanovets (1936–46), Shakhtyor (Shakhtar) (1946–92), and FC Shakhtar (1992–). , , , Football came to the Donetsk region in the time of the Russian Empire when the industrialization of the country began. Numerous foreigners, particularly British workers, were forming their own football teams. In September 1911, at the factory of Novorossiysk Association (currently Donetsk Steel Works Factory – DMZ) owned by John Hughes has created the Yuzovka Sports Association which contained a football club as well. The football team existed until 1919. In the 1920s, the club was reorganized into the one of Vladimir Lenin 's club. One of the most prominent players of that period was Viktor Shylovsky  who became famous, however, playing for Dynamo Kyiv . , The club Shakhtar was originally formed in May 1936 and was initially named Stakhanovets , meaning "the participant of Stakhanovite movement ," which derived from Aleksei Stakhanov , a coal-miner in the Donets basin and propaganda celebrity in 1935. The first team was based upon two other local teams, the participants of the All-Ukrainian Spartakiads : Dynamo Horlivka and Stalino . The first game was unofficial against Dynamo Odessa and took place on 12 May 1936 at Balitsky Stadium. The team lost it 3–2 after scoring the first goal. Its first official game with Dynamo Kazan was even more disappointing, which they lost 4–1. Nonetheless, the selective job conducted constructively by the clubs administration allowed the club to compete successfully at the top level by the end 1930s. During the war championship of 1941, which was interrupted unexpectedly, the club defeated Soviet champions Dynamo Moscow and after about ten games were placed in fifth position. In the last game of that championship, they played on 24 June, two days after the start of the Great Patriotic War ,  which they lost at home to Traktor Stalingrad .  , The All-Union coal mining society of Stakhanovite had changed its name in July 1946 to Shakhtyor . In 1950 Viktor Fomin was named Ukrainian Footballer of the Year , even though the club finished only 11th in the league. The first success for the team was in 1951, when it achieved third place in the USSR Championship . The most notable player of that achievement was the striker Aleksandr Ponomarev , who came to finish his football career in Donbass , the region he was born at, and was named Ukrainian Footballer of the Year for 1951. Despite the latest achievement, Shakhtar was relegated at the end of the 1952 season, and as part of the re-organization of the team, the former player Aleksandr Ponomarev became the head coach of the club. In 1954, Shakhtar under Ponomarev won the Class B League , and returned to the top league. , In 1958 the players of the club received less yellow and red cards then any other team in the championship, for what the Sovetsky Sport newspaper awarded the club with the "Fair Play Award".  In the 1960s, Shakhtar, under Oleg Oshenkov ’s coaching, were three-time USSR Cup finalists, winning it twice in 1961 and 1962. Among the players playing for the club then where defenders Viacheslav Aliabiev and Vladimir Salkov . The club was nicknamed "The Cup Team" due to Shakhtar’s success in vying for the trophy every year. The Miners’ more notable achievements, however, occurred later from the mid-1970s to the early 1980s. , Despite the departure of the teams leader midfielder Anatoliy Konkov , in 1975, Shakhtar under management of former player Vladimir Salkov , earned second place in the USSR Championship and received the right to represent the Soviet Union in European competition . At the end of the season Shakhtar received the Progress Cup , for making the biggest progress from previous season in the league (they received the award again in 1977). In 1978, Shakhtar finished third in the USSR Championship. A year later, the team finished second in the league campaign and its captain — striker Vitaliy Starukhin — became the top scorer in the USSR Championship with 26 goals scored and was named the Soviet Footballer of the Year . The club was only 2 points away from the first place, despite having important players leaving the club before the season, and other important players receiving injuries.  Other important players besides Starukhin at the time were Mykhaylo Sokolovsky , who went on to set a caps record for the club (for what he received the Club Loyalty Award in 1987), defenders Viktor Zvyahintsev and Valeriy Horbunov , who both made it numerous times to the 33 Top Players of the Soviet Championship lists, and goalie Yuriy Dehteryov who was named Soviet goalie of the year and took 3rd place for Soviet Footballer of the Year in 1977.  , Shakhtar twice, in 1980 and 1983, brought home the crystal USSR Cup to Donetsk and in 1983, it won the USSR Super Cup over then-domestic league champions Dnipro Dnipropetrovsk . Shakhtar reached the 1983–84 European Cup Winners' Cup quarter-final, and strikers Viktor Hrachov and Serhiy N. Morozov became joint top scorers of the tournament. In 1987 Shakhtar Donetsk received the smallest amount of yellow and red cards in the championship, for which the club was awarded the "Soviet Top League Fair Play Award" by the Man and Law Magazine.  Between 1982 and 1988 Shakhtar received the "Together With The Club" award 5 times, an award given for good organization of home games and behavior of the home fans.  , In the newly independent Ukraine, Shakhtar, along with Dynamo Kyiv , became perennial first place competitors. In October 1995, a bombing-assassination took place at the team's stadium, killing team President Akhat Bragin . In the year that followed, Rinat Akhmetov took over as President and subsequently invested heavily in the club.  , Even though Shakhtar was not a contester for the championship at the time, finishing second many times with a big point gap from the first place, they won the Ukrainian Cup three times in 1995 (under the management of former player Vladimir Salkov ), 1997 and 2001 . In the 1997–98 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , Shakhtar were eliminated after a 5–2 aggregate loss to Italian club Vicenza , losing the first and second legs. Important players at the time were defenders Serhiy Popov and Mykhaylo Starostyak , goalkeeper Dmytro Shutkov , striker Oleh Matveyev , who was top scorer of the Ukrainian Premier League in season 1996–97, and midfielders Hennadiy Orbu , Valeriy Kriventsov and Ihor Petrov . Most of the players plying for the team of the time came through the teams youth ranks. , Towards the end of the decade, the team finally started to look like a team able to become champion. In 1999, a Shakhtar football academy was opened and now hosts football training for roughly 3,000 children. In 2000 Andriy Vorobey was named Ukrainian Footballer of the Year by Komanda , the first Shakhtar player in independent Ukraine to do so, and became the top scorer in the 2000–01 Ukrainian Premier League . , The club won their first ever Ukrainian Premier League title in the 2001–02 season , under coach Nevio Scala , winning by a single point over Dynamo Kyiv. They were also victorious in the 2001–02 Ukrainian Cup , defeating Dynamo 3–2 after extra time in the Final .  Among the main players at the club at the time were captin defensive midfielder Anatoliy Tymoschuk , striker Andriy Vorobey , midfielder Hennadiy Zubov and defender Mykhaylo Starostyak . At the end of the season Tymoschuk , who emerged as the club's leader on the field, was named Ukrainian Footballer of the Year according to Komanda and Ukrainskiy Football . , After few manager changes, in 2004 Mircea Lucescu was invited to built a team in Shakhtar. After 10 days at the club he won the 2003–04 Ukrainian Cup , and after three month for the first time in club history the club made it to the UEFA Champions League group stage, which won him the 2004 Romania Coach of the Year title.  The strategy chosen was looking for young talented players in Brazil , which will form the base of the attack, while the defense will be mostly local (in order to adjust to rules forcing teams to have a certain number of local players on the field).   The big amount of Brazilian players arriving to the club through the years earned Shakhtar the nickname "the most Brazilian club in Europe ".       They won their second Premier League title in the 2004–05 season . They lost to Dynamo Kyiv in the inaugural Ukrainian Super Cup tournament in 2004. They finished as runners up in the 2004–05 Ukrainian Cup , losing to Dynamo in a penalty shoot-out the Final .  , They retained the Premier League crown in the 2005–06 season and managed to avenge the defeat to Dynamo in the previous Super Cup by defeating them on penalties to win their first ever Super Cup title.  At the end of the season Anatoliy Tymoschuk was named Ukrainian Footballer of the Year for by Ukrainskiy Football for the second time, becoming the first Shakhtar player to be named so more than once. Brazilian striker Brandao became league joint top scorer. , Shakhtar appeared in all three editions of the Channel One Cup , winning the 2006 edition and finishing runners up in 2008. Having missed out on the league title in the 2006–07 season ,  Shakhtar regained the title in the 2007–08 season . They were also victorious in the Ukrainian Cup , defeating Dynamo Kyiv 2–0 in the final.  Shakhtar's attendance levels at league matches have continually risen over the years to a point where they averaged 36,983 spectators over the 2011–12 Premier League season . , In 2009, they became only the second Ukrainian team to win a European competition (and the first since independence), and the first to win the UEFA Cup , beating Werder Bremen in the final, with goals from Brazilians Luiz Adriano and Jádson .  The victory earned the player Mariusz Lewandowski the 2009 Polish Footballer of the Year award. This also made them the last UEFA Cup winners before the tournament was rebranded as the UEFA Europa League . , Before the start of the 2009–10 season, Shakhtar won the friendly Uhrencup tournament. Shakhtar won the Premier League title in the 2009–10 season ,  goalkeeper Andriy Pyatov was named Ukraine Premier League MVP by Komanda , and Manager Mircea Lucescu was named Romania Coach of the Year , for the second time. The 2010–11 season was a very successful one for Shakhtar. They reached the quarter-final stage of the Champions League , their best ever performance in the competition at that time.  Captain Darijo Srna was chosen to be part of the Champions League team of the season as voted by fans.  They also won a domestic treble with victory in the Premier League , Ukrainian Cup , and the Super Cup .  The successful season didn't go unnoticed by the experts, and in 2011 the IFFHS gave Shakhtar a special award for making the biggest progress of the decade among football clubs.   They then went on to win the Premier League and Ukrainian Cup in the 2011–12 season .  Shakhtar player Yevhen Seleznyov topped the goal scoring charts in the league, with 14 goals, midfielder Henrikh Mkhitaryan was named Armenian Footballer of the Year , and manager Mircea Lucescu was named 2012 Romania Coach of the Year , receiving the award for the third time. The main players at that time were captain Darijo Srna , defender Yaroslav Rakitskiy , Armenian midfielder Henrikh Mkhitaryan (who was named Armenian Footballer of the Year twice while playing for Shakhtar), and Brazilian midfielders Fernandinho and Willian . , In the 2012–13 season Shakhtar won the Premier League , Cup and Super Cup . Henrikh Mkhitaryan became the top scorer of the league, setting a Ukrainian championship record of 25 goals. Mkhitaryan was also named the Ukraine Premier League MVP by Komanda , Armenian Footballer of the Year and the CIS Footballer of the Year for 2012. , Before the 2013–14 season many of the main players of the club were sold after Shakhtar accepted high bids on them. Henrikh Mkhitaryan , Fernandinho and Willian brought the club over 100 million Euros, and Shakhtar spent the following summer trying to integrate new young players into the team, who along with the remaining players were to form the backbone of the renewed Shakhtar.    Despite selling its leaders, before season 2013–14 Shakhtar set a new record for East Europe for number of season tickets sold.  Before the beginning of the 2013–14 season, Shakhtar won two friendly tournaments in Abu Dhabi , the Match World Cup, and the Super Cup of Champions played against the Russian champion Zenit St Petersburg .  In the mid-season break, Shakhtar won the 2014 United Supercup (the second edition of the United Tournament ), a tournament between the top-two placed clubs of Ukraine and of Russia ,   which strengthened Shakhtar's status as the strongest club in Eastern Europe .    At the end of the 2013–14 season Shakhtar won the Ukraine Premier League , while Luiz Adriano became the league top scorer. Shakhtar also won the 2014 Ukrainian Super Cup , holding the trophy for the 6th time. Manager Mircea Lucescu was named the 2014 Romania Coach of the Year , receiving the award for the fourth time. , Due to the War in Donbass , Shakhtar had to temporary move and play its games in Arena Lviv .  As an anti-war protest, the players of Shakhtar refused the initiative to wear the "Glory to the Ukrainian Army" shirts.  In the 2014–15 UEFA Champions League Shakhtar finished second in the group stage, therefore qualifying to the next stage. Striker Luiz Adriano equaled Lionel Messi 's record of five goals in a UEFA Champions League match, equaled Cristiano Ronaldo 's record of scoring 9 goals in the group stage, and as a result UEFA named him MVP of the 2014–15 UEFA Champions League group stage.  Shakhtar finished the season second in the 2014–15 Ukrainian Premier League , after playing the whole season away from Donbass , with Alex Teixeira finishing as a joint top scorer of the league. , Until 2009 Shakhtar had been playing most of its games at the RSC Olimpiyskiy stadium. The construction of a new stadium, Donbass Arena , finished and it was opened on 29 August 2009. The stadium has a capacity of 50,149 and has been awarded a UEFA five star rating, the highest rating achievable. Shakhtar's old home, the central Shakhtar Stadium which was built in 1936 and reconstructed four times, is currently being used by Shakhtar Donetsk Reserves . The stadium received some major renovations, including the installation of bench seats in 2000 when Shakhtar made it to the Champions League Group Stage. , A mascot mole ( moles is a nickname for the club) will entertain spectators during the home matches. Shakhtar are rated 40th by the average game attendance, being the top eastern European club on the rating charts.  Before season 2013–14 Shakhtar set a new record for Eastern Europe for number of season tickets sold, selling 27,000 season tickets, which means 52% of the seats in Donbass Arena belong to season tickets holders.  , Due to conflict in Eastern Ukraine , Shakhtar and Metalurh Donetsk are playing this season at the Arena Lviv in Lviv .   , Shakhtar Donetsk has its own training facilities for its first team, reserve team and youth academy all located at Kirsha Training Centre . During the period when their temporary venue for its home matches is Bannikov Stadium the team will use training facilities in Kiev .  , The club has several reserve teams. Some play at professional level such as FC Shakhtar-3 Donetsk , while Shakhtar U-21 team participates in the youth championship of Ukrainian Premier League. Shakhtar also has its football academy that fields four teams in a special youth league designated for teenagers. Since 2012 the club also has a team for the U-19 championship of Ukrainian Premier League. , Created out of the Shakhtar reserves that played in the Soviet competitions, there also used to be FC Shakhtar-2 Donetsk that played at profession level in Ukraine and eventually was merged with Shakhtar U-21 team yielding its place to the FC Spartak Sumy in 2006. , The first logo of the club was designed in 1936, it featured a blue hexagon , with a red 'S' in the middle, crossed over by a jackhammer . In 1946, when the club was renamed, the logo was changed to black and white, with addition of club's name. Later, in the middle of the 1960s, their logo depicted two crossed hammers, with "Shakhtar Donetsk" written in the circle. The crest was added to the kit and remained there since, except for several seasons in the beginning of the 1990s. The club's name was depicted in the Russian language , until the latest logo was chosen. Therefore, some sources have its name written often as "Shakhter" or rarely "Shakhtyor." , In 1989, an artist, Viktor Savilov, on the event of the club restructuring offered a draft variant of a logo with elements of the ball and a pitch . Some time later, the logo was remodelled into the present one. The emblem was added to the kit in 1997.  , In 2008, during the presentation of the club's new stadium, Shakhtar's new logo was unveiled. For the first time in over 30 years, the crossed hammers, the traditional symbols of the club, were present on the crest. Also, for the first time the name was written in the Ukrainian language and not Russian . , The first riots associated with Shakhtar fans held on September 20, 1959 in the match against CSKA Moscow . Then on the field ran several dozen Shakhtar supporters and as a result the match was frustrated. In all matches involving Donetsk team always came many people that only promoted the development of fan movement in Donetsk. In the early 1980s began active development of football movement. In the early 2000s to the Ukrainian stadiums came English style - hooliganism . In 2003, during the final of the Ukrainian Cup there was a fierce fight between Dynamo and Shakhtar fans. , The biggest ultras firm is Za Boys Ultra. There are also The Club and Pivnich 8. During the Ukrainian Revolution 2014 some of Shakhtar ultras went to Kyiv to support the protesters. Most ultras spoke in support of the protesters during the local Euromaidan in Donetsk .  Today several representatives of the fan movement fighting in eastern Ukraine .  , Shakhtar's biggest rival today is Dynamo Kyiv . The match between them has grown into what is called the Ukrainian derby . The stadiums in Kiev and Donetsk are nearly full for matches between the two teams and are the main football events within the country. On the other hand "ultras" – fanatical supporters of Shakhtar – fought alongside their Dynamo arch-rivals during the violent street protests of the 2014 Ukrainian revolution .  They later provided security for pro-Ukrainian demonstrators during the 2014 pro-Russian protests in Donetsk .  , The other rivalry with Metalurh Donetsk is local and, although not as significant as games against the rivals from the capital, the games between the two Donetsk teams have been proclaimed the Donetsk Derby . , Among the extinguished rivalries are the games against Spartak Moscow and, particularly, the third place champions Dinamo Tbilisi of Georgia that took place at times during the Soviet Top League . Another interesting rivalry, the Donbas Derby, is with Zorya Luhansk , which gather a significant crowd in Luhansk . During the early Ukrainian championships, another interesting rivalry developed with Chornomorets Odessa labelled the "Miners vs. Sailors," which declined with the turn of the millennium due to inconsistent performance of the Odessa -based club. , Several players have won individual awards during or for their time with Shakhtar Donetsk. , Soviet Footballer of the Year , Ukrainian Footballer of the Year , Ukraine Premier League MVP , Armenian Footballer of the Year , Polish Footballer of the Year , Soviet Goalkeeper of the Year , Club Loyalty Award , Romania Coach of the Year , The squad is as of 26 June 2015.   , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , As of 21 October 2014 , As of 21 October 2014 , Shakhtar Donetsk participates in European competitions since 1976 after playing its first against Berliner FC Dynamo in the UEFA Cup 1976–77 . Since 1997, however, the club continuously participates on annual basis with variable successes, while also takes part in the UEFA Champions League competition since 2000. The first qualification to a group stage took place in the 2000–01 UEFA Champions League when Shakhtar Donetsk played against Arsenal , Lazio , and Sparta Prague .  PFC Central Sport Club of the Army, Moscow ( Russian : Профессиональный футбольный клуб – ЦСКА ) is a Russian professional football club. It is based in the Moscow , playing its home matches at the 18,630-capacity Arena Khimki . The club is the most known division of the CSKA Moscow sports club. , Founded in 1911, CSKA had its most successful period after World War II with five titles in six seasons. It won a total of 7 Soviet Top League championships, including the last-ever season in 1991 . The club has also won 5 Russian Premier League titles, and the 2004-05 UEFA Cup . , CSKA was the official team of the Soviet Army during the communist era. Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union it has become privately owned, with the Ministry of Defence as a shareholder. Russian businessman Roman Abramovich 's Sibneft corporation was a leading sponsor of the club from 2004 to 2006. , , , Officially, CSKA is a professional club and thus no longer a section of the Russian military's CSKA sports club . The Russian Ministry of Defense is a PFC CSKA shareholder, however, and the central club claims them as their own (see CSKA Moscow ). The Moscow Army men won their 10th national title back in 2006 and they are one of the most successful clubs in Russian football, having an extensive legacy in Soviet football as well. CSKA won the Soviet championship seven times (1946, 1947, 1948, 1950, 1951, 1970, 1991), silver – 1938, 1945, 1949, 1990, bronze – 1939, 1955, 1956, 1958, 1964, 1965; the Soviet Cup five times (1945, 1948, 1951, 1955, 1991); the Russian Cup in 2002, 2005, 2006, 2008, 2009, 2011, 2013; won the Russian Premier League champions title in 2003, 2005, 2006,2012–13,2013-14 finishing second in 1998, 2002, 2004, 2008 and 2010, bronze 1999, 2007, 2012 and the Russian Super Cup in 2004, 2006, 2007, 2009,2012–13. After winning the Soviet championship in 1951, the club started the 1952 championship with 3 wins, but were forced to withdraw from the league as punishment for a disappointing showing of the Soviet Union football team at the Helsinki Olympics.  In 2004, the club received a major financial infusion from a sponsorship deal with Sibneft, an oil company owned by Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich . Abramovich did not take an ownership interest in the club, as he was the owner of English Premier League club Chelsea and UEFA rules allow only one club controlled by any one entity (person or corporation) to participate in European club competition in a given season. The partnership with Sibneft lasted until 2006, when VTB became the sponsor of the club. CSKA started 2009 without a shirt sponsor. , 1945,1948,1951,1955 Soviet Cup final. , On 4 November 1992, CSKA qualified for the group stage of the UEFA Champions League which contained only 8 teams after defeating Spanish champion FC Barcelona 4–3 on aggregate. , CSKA won the 2005 UEFA Cup by beating Sporting CP 3–1 in the Final at Sporting's own Estádio José Alvalade in Lisbon . It became the first Russian club to win a major European title, as well as the first one to complete a treble . , On 16 March 2010, CSKA qualified for the quarterfinals of the UEFA Champions League after defeating Sevilla FC 3–2 on aggregate. They were later eliminated from competition by Internazionale , losing by 1–0 scorelines in both Milan and Moscow . , On 7 December 2011, CSKA qualified for the knockout phase of the UEFA Champions League after winning crucial 3 points by defeating Internazionale with scoreline 1-2 in Milan . , In 2015, the club is due to move into a new stadium . , CSKA was nicknamed Horses because the first stadium was built on the old racecourse/hippodromo in Moscow.  It was considered offensive, but later it was transformed into The Horses , and currently this nickname is used by players and fans as the name, along with other variants such as Army Men ( Russian : армейцы ) and Red-Blues ( Russian : красно-синие ). , CSKA has its own stadium called " Light-Athletic Football Complex CSKA " and abbreviated as LFK CSKA. Its capacity is very small for a club of its stature; no more than 4,600 spectators. This is one of the primary reasons the club uses other venues in the city. Their new stadium broke ground in 2007 in place of the former Army's stadium the Grigory Fedotov Stadium and is due to be completed in 2015. In the meantime, CSKA has been playing in Arena Khimki since 2010. They are currently sharing the stadium with Dynamo Moscow , as they too are awaiting the completion of their own new stadium. , As of 10 May 2015. Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , The following players are listed by club's website as reserve players. They are registered with the Russian Premier League and are eligible to play for the first team. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , The reserves team played on the professional level as FC CSKA-d Moscow ( Russian Second League in 1992–93, Russian Third League in 1994–97, Russian Second Division in 1998–00). A separate farm club called FC CSKA-2 Moscow played in the Soviet Second League in 1986–89, Soviet Second League B in 1990–91, Russian Second League in 1992–93 and Russian Third League in 1994. That latter team was called FC Chaika-CSKA-2 Moscow for one season in 1989. , Had international caps for their respective countries. Players whose name is listed in bold represented their countries while playing for CSKA. , As of 2 December 2014 [update] , Players highlighted in bold are still playing professionally.  Galatasaray Spor Kulübü , commonly known as Galatasaray , is a Turkish professional football club based in Istanbul , Turkey . It is the association football branch of the larger Galatasaray Sports Club , itself a part of the Galatasaray Community which includes Galatasaray University and Galatasaray High School , where it was founded in 1905. , Galatasaray has won 49 domestic trophies, including a record 20 Süper Lig titles, a record 16 Turkish Cups and a record 13 Turkish Super Cups . It is one of three teams to have participated in all seasons of the Turkish Süper Lig since 1959, following the dissolution of the Istanbul Football League , and are the only club to have won the Süper Lig in four successive seasons. , Internationally, Galatasaray has won the UEFA Cup and UEFA Super Cup in 2000, becoming the first and only Turkish team to win a European trophy. In the 1999–2000 season , the club achieved the rare feat of completing a quadruple by winning the Turkish Süper Lig , the Turkish Cup , the UEFA Cup and the UEFA Super Cup in a single season. Galatasaray is also the only Turkish club to have been ranked 1st on the IFFHS World Rankings .  , Since 2011, the club's stadium is the 52,652 capacity Türk Telekom Arena in Seyrantepe, Istanbul . Previously, the club had played at the Ali Sami Yen Stadium , as well as a succession of other grounds in Istanbul, which included groundshares with Beşiktaş and Fenerbahçe at the Taksim Stadium and İnönü Stadium . , The club has a long-standing rivalry with other major Istanbul teams, namely with Beşiktaş and Fenerbahçe . The derby between Galatasaray and Fenerbahçe is dubbed the Kıtalar Arası Derbi ( English : Intercontinental Derby) due to the location of their headquarters and stadiums on the European (Galatasaray) and Asian (Fenerbahçe) sides of the Bosphorus strait in Istanbul . , As a result of the team's twentieth championship for the 2014-15 season of the Süper Lig, their logo hereafter contains 4 stars representing their 20 championships for the league. Each star corresponds to the team's 5 championships. , , , Galatasaray SK was founded in October 1905 (the exact day is disputed, but is traditionally accepted as "17 Teşrinievvel 1321" according to the Rumi calendar , which corresponds to "30 October 1905" according to the Gregorian calendar ) by Ali Sami Yen and other students of Galatasaray High School (a high school in Istanbul which was established in 1481) as a football club. Ali Sami Yen became Galatasaray SK's first president and was given the club's membership number "1". The team's first match was against Cadi-Keuy FC and Galatasaray won this match with a score of 2–0.  There were discussions about the club's name, in which some suggested Gloria (victory) and others Audace (courage), but it was decided that its name would be Galatasaray.  , The name Galatasaray itself comes from that of Galatasaray High School , which in turn takes its name from Galata Sarayı Enderûn-u Hümâyûn (Galata Palace Imperial School), the name of the original school founded on the site in 1481, and which in turn took its name from the nearby medieval Genoese citadel of Galata (the modern quarter of Karaköy ) in the Beyoğlu (Pera) district of Istanbul. Galatasaray literally means "Galata palace". , According to researcher Cem Atabeyoğlu, Galatasaray took its name from one of its first matches. In that match, Galatasaray won 2–0 over a local Greek club and the spectators called them "Galata Sarayı efendileri" (in English: Gentlemen of Galata Palace), and, after this incident, they adopted that name and started to call their club "Galata Sarayı". In 1905, during the era of the Ottoman Empire , there were no laws for associations so the club could not be registered officially, but, after the 1912 Law of Association, the club registered legally.  , Among with the founder Ali Sami Yen, the co-founders were the ones who were keen to do this sport, such as Asım Tevfik Sonumut, Reşat Şirvani, Cevdet Kalpakçıoğlu, Abidin Daver and Kamil. , Since there weren't any other Turkish teams, Galatasaray joined the Istanbul League that was consisting of English and Greek teams in the season of 1905–1906. With their first championship title they won in 1908–1909, they heralded the beginning of Turkish football history.  , While football in Turkey began to fully develop, Galatasaray won ten more Istanbul League titles [ citation needed ] , six Sunday League titles [ citation needed ] and three Friday League titles [ citation needed ] until 1952. Upon the initiation of professional football in 1952, the first professional but non-national league of Turkey, Istanbul Professional League , was played between 1952 and 1959. Galatasaray won three of these seven titles. , Türkiye Profesyonel 1. Ligi ( Turkish Super League today) formed in 1959. This is the top-flight professional league in Turkish nationwide football, and the most popular sporting competition in the country. Galatasaray joined all seasons and won 20 league titles since then. , The Turkish Football Federation starts to organize "Turkish Cup" (today it is organized with the name Ziraat Turkish Cup ) in the 1962–63 season for Turkish clubs to qualify for the UEFA competitions. This is the only national cup competition in Turkey. Galatasaray joined all seasons and won 15 trophies since then.  , Probably the greatest record that club holds is winning national championships in 15 different sport branches in 1986–87 season. [ citation needed ] , Galatasaray's most successful era came in late 1990s, when the club become the first Turkish football club ever to win a European trophy. They were aided in this by one of Turkey's best generation of home grown footballers who went on to finish third in the 2002 FIFA World Cup and played quarter finals of UEFA Euro 2000 . Besides the talented players, visiting teams also disliked traveling into Ali Sami Yen Stadium which is literally called "Hell" by the supporters of Galatasaray due to the intimidating atmosphere provided by the fans including chants and riots in the crowds.  , There are many successful footballers who have played for Galatasaray and made their mark on Turkish football history. The team's legendary players include the 1930s national hero Eşfak Aykaç ;  Boduri who died aged 21;  Mehmet Leblebi who scored a domestic record of 14 goals in a single match;  Gündüz Kılıç nicknamed Baba (Father) who was the coach but also the player of his team in the 1950s, with great success in both duties;  Bülent-Reha Eken brothers; Suat Mamat who made a hat-trick in the 1954 FIFA World Cup ;  Coşkun Özarı who devoted his life to Galatasaray;  Turgay Şeren the heroic goalkeeper who was called "the Panther of Berlin";  Fatih Terim , the team captain of Galatasaray and Turkish national football team for many years, who won the UEFA Cup in 2000 as the team's coach;  Metin Oktay the legendary six-time top-scorer of the Turkish Super League;  Zoran Simović , another skilled goalkeeper known for his penalty saves;  Cüneyt Tanman who played a record of 342 games for Galatasaray;  Tanju Çolak , an extraordinary goalscorer and the 1988 European Golden Boot winner with Galatasaray;  Cevad Prekazi , an Albanian teammate of Tanju Çolak specializing in free kicks;  Taffarel the World Cup winner goalkeeper of Brazil ;  Gheorghe Hagi , the Romanian football hero who is still described as the best foreign player ever to play in Turkey;  Brazilian striker Mário Jardel , who was called Super Mário by the fans and scored both of Galatasaray's two goals in the European Super Cup Final in 2000 against Real Madrid ; and last but not least, Hakan Şükür , the player who scored most goals in the Turkish Super League history, with 249 goals. , The name Galatasaray itself comes from that of Galatasaray High School , which in turn takes its name from Galata Sarayı Enderûn-u Hümâyûn (Galata Palace Imperial School), the name of the original school founded on the site in 1481, and which in turn took its name from the nearby medieval Genoese citadel of Galata (the modern quarter of Karaköy ) in the Beyoğlu (Pera) district of Istanbul. Galatasaray literally means "Galata Palace". , There is no diminutive form of Galatasaray. Fans refer to the club either by its full name or by its nickname "Cim Bom Bom" (pronounced 'Jim Bom Bom') or the shortened 'Cim Bom'. The shortened form 'Gala' is sometimes used by English speakers. , "Galatasaray" is a compound word and it is pronounced as such. The most common mistake by non-Turkish speakers is to intonate as Gala-tasaray, whereas the correct enunciation is Galata-saray with a very brief pause between the two words.  , Galatasaray's first emblem was drawn by 333 [School Number] Şevki Ege. This was the figure of a spread-winged eagle with a football in its beak. The eagle was a model emblem that Galatasaray dwelled on in the beginning. But when the name did not attract too much interest, Şevki Ege’s composition was pushed aside. It was replaced by the current design in the 1920s. This replaced in 1925 by the current “Ghayn-Sin” crest, which are the first two Arabic letters of "G"alata "S"aray, designed by Ayetullah Emin.  , Galatasaray wore red and white colours when founded, then played in dark yellow and dark blue during the 1907–1908 season. For a match against the football team of the Royal Navy cruiser HMS Barham 's crewmen, played on 8 December 1908, Galatasaray finally settled on playing in red and yellow, inspired by the roses which Gül Baba offered to Sultan Bayezid II .  , Since 1908 the club's home kit has typically been an 8-piece halved design. The shirt’s front, back and sleeves are made up of two alternating colours. White shorts and red socks are usually worn as part of the home strip  This changed in the mid-1980s, when sportswear manufacturer Adidas began to provide the shirts. The club reverted to the "classic" kit in 2012.   The official colours are Pantone shades 1235 (yellow) and 201 (red).  , , When Galatasaray were formed no Turkish teams had their own home ground, and all games in the Istanbul Football League took place at Papazın Çayırı – now the site of Fenerbahçe 's Şükrü Saracoğlu Stadium . In 1921 the city's first proper football stadium was constructed, Taksim Stadium , which was used as the home ground for all of Istanbul's teams.  When historic Taksim Stadium was demolished in 1940, Galatasaray decided to build a large, modern stadium. Due to difficulties stemming from World War II, construction was delayed for over two decades. In this period, they played in Şeref Stadi and Dolmabahçe Stadi On 20 December 1964, Ali Sami Yen Stadium opened.  Named after the founder of Galatasaray, Ali Sami Yen , it is in the Mecidiyeköy quarter of the Şişli district at the center of the city. In 1964, the stadium had capacity over 35,000. Due to improvements in security and prohibition of non-seater spectators, the all-seater capacity reduced to 22,000 in 1993. A few years later, the rebuilt of main stand, which was damaged by an earthquake, slightly increased the capacity.  After 2002, when Atatürk Olympic Stadium was built for Istanbul 's Olympic Games bid, Galatasaray started to play European Cup matches there. The attendance record among Turkish stadiums was broken there, in Galatasaray– Olympiacos match played in front of 79,414 spectators. Yet, Ali Sami Yen Stadium has historic importance for Galatasaray fans although it is smaller and older.  In 2011, the stadium demolished after Galatsaray moved to newly built Türk Telekom Arena . , The new home ground of Galatasaray is the newly built Türk Telekom Arena in the Aslantepe quarter near Maslak financial district in Şişli . The new stadium, which was opened 15 January 2011, has a capacity of 52,695 seats, making it the largest private stadium owned by a club in Turkey.  , Since 1992, after every goal scored by Galatasaray, the last part of the song " I Will Survive " by the Hermes House Band is played. Although the song is in English, the part used has no lyrics except "la la la la". In addition, before every game the Florida State University war chant (Galatasaray War Chant), a chant developed by the Marching Chiefs (FSU's marching band), is played accompanied by what the fans call a "scarf show" where fans display and wave their Galatasaray scarves, banners and flags. Many people [ who? ] call the Turk Telekom Arena 'Cehennem' (hell) because of stadium anthems and the continuous roar of the fans. , Galatasaray fans attach high importance to European competitions, and Galatasaray is known as the Conqueror of Europe by their fans. This nickname underlines the importance of the UEFA Cup and Super Cup Galatasaray managed to win during the 1999–2000 season. Galatasaray fans also have a reputation in Europe as being one of the most fanatic in the world, along with ultrAslan . Ryan Giggs once said I've never experienced anything like Galatasaray. Three hours before kick-off, we went out to have a look at the pitch and the stadium was overcrowded! The chanting was brilliant: one side starts, then the other, then quiet, then all of them chanting! The players really enjoyed it. Before it was good, after it wasn't for us.'   , Galatasaray fans broke the "loudest crowd roar at a sport stadium" record on 18 March 2011 at Galatasaray’s new stadium Türk Telekom Arena in Istanbul. A peak reading of 135.76 dBA was recorded.  , According to media polls since 1978, Galatasaray is the most popular team among football fans in Turkey. The latest poll by June 2012 places Galatasaray in the first place with a 41.8% level of popularity while Fenerbahçe S.K. comes second with a 35.9% level, Beşiktaş J.K. third with 16.3% and Trabzonspor fourth with 4.7%.     , "The big three" clubs of Istanbul , Beşiktaş J.K. , Fenerbahçe S.K. and Galatasaray S.K. have a century-long history of rivalry. The Galatasaray-Fenerbahçe rivalry is the primary Istanbul derby and the most important rivalry in Turkish football.  The rivalry poses a symbolic importance to supporters as much as the result. Supporters are often quoted as stating that winning the league without winning the derby is hollow. There is always huge interest in the derby due to its fierce nature on and off the pitch. Many documentaries have been made about the derby including an The Real Football Factories International episode. The rivalry has led to violence among supporters on numerous occasions, though this has been on the decline in recent years. The typical features of derby days include sell out stadiums, loud support throughout the match and taunting choreography displays by supporters before kick off.  Other top level İstanbul derbies include the teams; İstanbul BB and Kasımpaşa although these teams pose a minor rivalry as the history and the nation-wide attention to the derbies among the big three is unmatched. , Torches, smoke, drums, flags and giant posters used to create visual grandeur and apply psychological pressure on visiting teams, which fans call "welcoming them to hell".  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Galatasaray has one of the most successful youth facilities in Turkey. [ citation needed ] Gündüz Kılıç Youth Facilities in Florya is the center of the department. Galatasaray S.K. PAF have won the Turkish Youth League three times.  , Galatasaray football academy trains children between seven and fifteen. They are located in 79 sites, in Turkey, Australia, Germany, The Netherlands and the UK. , Companies that Galatasaray S.K. currently has sponsorship deals with include:  Royal Sporting Club Anderlecht , usually known as Anderlecht ( Dutch pronunciation: [ˈɑndərˌlɛçt] , French pronunciation: ​ [ɑ̃dəʁˈlɛkt] , German: [ˈandɐˌlɛçt] ) or RSCA ( Dutch pronunciation: [ˌɛrɛseˈjaː] , French pronunciation: ​ [ˌɛʁ ɛs se ˈɑ] , German: [ˌʔɛɐ̯ ʔɛs tseː ˈʔaː] ), is a Belgian professional football club based in Anderlecht , Brussels . Anderlecht plays in the Belgian Pro League and is the most successful Belgian football team in European competitions (with 5 trophies) as well as in the Belgian Pro League (33 championship wins). They also have won 9 Belgian Cups . They hold the record of the most consecutive Belgian championship titles, as they are the only side to have won 5 consecutive Belgian championships between 1963–64 and 1967–68 . , The club was founded in 1908, first reached the highest level in Belgian football in 1921–22 , and have been playing in the first division since 1935–36 . They won their first major trophy after World War II , with a championship win in 1946–47 . Since then, they have never finished outside the top six of the Belgian first division. They are #12 in the all time List of UEFA club competition winners and #10 in the IFFHS continental Clubs of the 20th Century European ranking. Anderlecht are ranked 41st in the 2012 UEFA team ranking .  In 1986, they achieved their best UEFA ranking with a joint first place with Juventus F.C.  , Anderlecht have been playing their matches in the Astrid Park in the municipality of Anderlecht since 1917. Their current stadium, Constant Vanden Stock Stadium , was first opened in 1983, and replaced the former Emile Versé Stadium. They play in purple and white outfits. They have long-standing rivalries with Club Brugge and Standard Liège , and previously with FC Brussels . , , , Founded as Sporting Club Anderlechtois on 27 May 1908 by a dozen football lovers at the Concordia café (located in the Rue d'Aumale/Aumalestraat in the municipality of Anderlecht), the club beat Institut Saint-Georges in their first match by 11–8.  They joined the official competition in 1909–10 , starting at the lowest level in the Belgian football league system , then the 3rd provincial division. In 1912–13 , they gained promotion to the second-higher level of football, then named the Promotion . After only one season at that level, the championships were suspended due to World War I , and resumed in 1919–20 . With the popularity of the team increasing, Anderlecht had moved to a new stadium in the Astrid Park in 1917 (then known as Meir Park). They baptized the stadium Stade Emile Versé in honor of the club's first major patron, the industrialist Emile Versé. At the end of the 1920–21 season , Anderlecht promoted to the first division for the first time in their history. In the next 14 seasons, Anderlecht was relegated 4 times (1923, 1926, 1928 and 1931) and promoted 4 times (1924, 1927, 1929, 1935), earning themselves the mockery of local rival clubs Union Saint-Gilloise and Daring Club de Bruxelles , who nicknamed them the "lift club". In 1933, 25 years after their formation, the club changed their name to Royal Sporting Club Anderlechtois. Since their promotion in 1935, Anderlecht has remained at the top level of football. With Jef Mermans , a striker signed from K Tubantia FC in 1942 for a record fee of 125,000 Belgian francs , Anderlecht won their first league title in 1947. Their success increased in the following years as they won 6 more titles between 1949–50 and 1955–56 (winning three consecutive titles twice) and 2 more in 1958–59 and 1961–62 . In the 1960s, under the coaching of Pierre Sinibaldi and then of Andreas Beres , the club even won 5 titles in a row (from 1963–64 to 1967–68 ), which is still a Belgian league record. The star of this team was Paul Van Himst (topscorer in 1965, 1967 and 1969 and Belgian Golden Shoe winner in 1960, 1961, 1965 and 1974). , Anderlecht played in the first European Champion Clubs' Cup in 1955–56 , and lost both legs of their tie against Vörös Lobogo . They had to wait until the 1962–63 season to win their first European tie, with a 1–0 victory over Real Madrid , which followed a 3–3 draw in Spain. For the first time they advanced to the second round, where they beat PFC CSKA Sofia before losing to Dundee in the quarter-finals. In the 1969–70 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup , Anderlecht lost in the final against Arsenal FC . Between 1975 and 1984, Anderlecht only won one championship but they achieved considerable European success: they won the 1975–76 and 1977–78 European Cup Winners' Cups against respectively West Ham United and FK Austria Wien , as well as the two subsequent European Super Cups . The 1982–83 season was a noteworthy season for the club for numerous reasons: former Anderlecht favourite Paul Van Himst was named the new coach, they won the 1982–83 UEFA Cup , and the rebuilding of the club stadium began. But in the domestic league, Anderlecht had to settle for second place behind Standard. Their bid to retain the UEFA Cup in 1983–84 failed at the final hurdle against English side Tottenham Hotspur . Anderlecht reached the final controversially by beating another English side Nottingham Forest with a debatable extra-time penalty to win 3–2 on aggregate. It was later found Anderlecht had bribed the referee the equivalent of £27,000 to ensure passage to the final.  , After three second-place finishes in a row, the Purple and Whites secured an easy 18th title in 1984–85, 11 points ahead of Club Brugge. In 1985–86, Anderlecht won the championship again, but this time after a two-legged play-off against Club Brugge. Anderlecht won their 20th championship on the last matchday of the 1986–87 season. They then lost key players Franky Vercauteren , Enzo Scifo (transferred in the summer of 1987) and Juan Lozano (heavily injured in a game at KSV Waregem a few months earlier).  A weakened team coached by Raymond Goethals finished only 4th in 1988 behind Club Brugge, Mechelen and Antwerp, but they managed to lift the Belgian Cup for the sixth time in their history, after a 2–0 victory against Standard Liège, with goals by Luc Nilis and Eddie Krnčević . The next year, Anderlecht retained the trophy with goals by Krnčević and Jankovic (again with a 2–0 win over Standard), but finished second in the championship. After his second cup win, Raymond Goethals left for Bordeaux . In the 1990s, Anderlecht reached one more European final, the 1990 European Cup Winners' Cup Final , that they lost to UC Sampdoria . The club then declined in European competitions, reaching only the 1990–91 and 1996–97 UEFA Cup quarter-finals as their best result. In national competitions, they won 4 championship titles and a cup. In the 2000s, Anderlecht secured 5 more Belgian champion titles, reaching a total of 29 titles in 2007, and 1 more cup. In the 2000–01 UEFA Champions League , they qualified for the first time to the second round, then another group stage, where they finished 3rd of their group behind Real Madrid and Leeds United . In 2009–10 , the Purple and Whites won their 30th Belgian league title. In the 2011–12 UEFA Europa League , Anderlecht made history by becoming the first Belgian team to finish the group stage of a European competition with the maximum number of points, in a group with Lokomotiv Moscow , Sturm Graz and AEK Athens . They were also the only team of that year's Europa League to achieve this feat. On 6 May 2012 Anderlecht won their 31st Belgian Championship.  On 22 July 2012 Anderlecht won their 10th Belgian Super Cup.  , Anderlecht colours are purple and white, and the club's home kit is generally white with purple trim, though they did wear a black and purple home kit in the 2005–06 season, and a grey in the 2007–2008 season. In the beginning, purple was the main colour of the shirts. The motto of Anderlecht ( Mens sana in corpore sano ) is written on its badge as are the three letters SCA referring to the initial name of the club (Sporting Club Anderlechtois). A crown was added in 1933 following the name change to Royal Sporting Club Anderlechtois. Anderlecht's colours inspired those of Al Ain FC in the United Arab Emirates. , R.S.C. Anderlecht play their home matches at the Constant Vanden Stock Stadium located within the Astrid Park in the municipality of Anderlecht. It currently has a capacity of 28,063 places, with 6,900 standing places, but the club has planned to extend the stadium to reach a capacity of 30,000 all-seated.  The works should start in 2011 and last 2 years. Anderlecht has been playing in the Astrid Park since the building of the Emile Versé Stadium in 1917. The stadium was completely rebuilt in 1983 and it was renamed in honour of the then chairman Constant Vanden Stock . Prior to 1917, the club has played on a ground in the current Rue du Serment/Eedstraat for a couple of years since 1908, then in a stadium located Rue Verheydenstraat (now Rue Démosthènestraat ).  In 2013 the stadium was refreshed, installing new scoreboards and advertising strips along the perimeter of the pitch in accordance with UEFA regulations for the Champion's League . ColosseoEAS was chosen as the provider for the ultra-modern LED strips and their controllers. , The club has had the highest average attendance in the Belgian First Division for ten years, except in 2002–03 and 2004–05 (when KRC Genk and Club Brugge respectively had higher averages). Anderlecht supporters hail from all over the country and only a minority come from the Brussels Capital Region. Anderlecht counts 77 fan clubs, of which five are abroad (one in France, one in Poland , one in Texas (United States) one in Montreal (Canada) and one in Sunderland (England). , A = appearances, GP = games played, W = won, D = drawn, L = lost, GF = goals for, GA = goals against. , From the quarter-finals upwards: , (5 cups) + (4 finals) , European Cup / UEFA Champions League : , UEFA Cup Winners' Cup (2) + (2) : , UEFA Cup / UEFA Europa League (1) + (2) : , UEFA Super Cup (2) : , Club Ranking for 2014/2015 Euro Season (Previous year rank in italics, UEFA Club Coefficients in parentheses) , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , There have been a total of 37 permanent managers and 3 caretaker managers of Anderlecht since the appointment of the first manager, Sylva Brébart in 1920. The club's longest-serving manager is Englishman Bill Gormlie who served during 9 seasons between 1950 and 1959. Frenchman Georges Perino is the first Anderlecht manager to have claimed a trophy, with the first championship win in 1946–47 . Seven Anderlecht managers have managed the club on two occasions: Ernest Churchill Smith, Pierre Sinibaldi , Urbain Braems , Raymond Goethals , Arie Haan , Johan Boskamp and Franky Vercauteren . Other managers have also played another role in the club before being appointed manager, for instance Jean Dockx who served 3 times as caretaker before being appointed manager. , In 1993 Brussels D71 became Anderlecht's women team . The team has won three Leagues and five Cups since.  Olympiacos F.C. ( Greek : ΠΑΕ Ολυμπιακός ), also known simply as Olympiacos , Olympiacos Piraeus or with its full name as Olympiacos C.F.P. ( Greek : Oλυμπιακός Σύνδεσμος Φιλάθλων Πειραιώς , transliterated "Olympiakós Sýndesmos Filáthlo̱n Peiraió̱s"), Olympiacos Club of Fans of Piraeus , are a Greek professional football club, part of the major multi-sport club Olympiacos CFP , based in Piraeus . , Olympiacos are the most successful club in Greek football history ,  with 42 Greek League titles,  27 Greek Cups ,  17 Doubles  and 4 Greek Super Cups , with a total of 73 national titles, all records. Olympiacos' dominating success can be further evidenced by the fact that all the other Greek clubs have won a combined total of 37 League titles.  , Olympiacos also holds the record for the most consecutive Greek League titles, as they are the only team to have won 7 consecutive championships ( 1997 – 2003 ), having broken their own previous record of 6 ( 1954 – 1959 ).  In 2015, Olympiacos won their fifth consecutive Greek Championship and reached a historic milestone, as they became the only football club in the world to have won a series of five or more consecutive championships for five times in their history, a world record that was praised by FIFA in its congratulatory letter to the club.   Olympiacos holds yet another record in Greek football history , being the only club to have won 5 consecutive Greek Cups from 1957 to 1961 .  In addition, it is one of three clubs to have never been relegated from the top flight of Greek football; in European competitions, they have reached the quarter-finals twice, in the 1998–99 UEFA Champions League  —losing the semi-final spot in the last minutes of their second match against Juventus —and the 1992–93 European Cup Winners' Cup .  They have also won the Balkans Cup in 1963 , becoming the first ever Greek club to win an international, non-domestic competition. Olympiacos is one of the founding members of the European Club Association in 2008.  , Club's home ground is the Karaiskakis Stadium in Piraeus.  Olympiacos is the most popular Greek club      with around three million fans inside Greece and millions of others in the Greek communities all over the world.       Olympiacos was placed ninth on the 2006 list of clubs with the largest number of paying members, with 83,000 registered members as of April 2006.  In 2014, that figure increased and the team boasts 98,000 registered members.  They share a great and long-standing rivalry with Panathinaikos , with whom they contest the derby of the eternal enemies . , Olympiacos supporters have been involved in the worst tragedy that ever hit Greek sports , known as the Karaiskakis Stadium disaster ( 8 February 1981 ). Twenty-one supporters lost their lives in Gate 7, while rushing out of the stadium to celebrate the 6–0 victory of Olympiacos against AEK Athens .  , , , Olympiacos was founded on 10 March 1925, in the port of Piraeus , and the club’s aim, as stated in the statutes, is the systematic cultivation and development of its athletes’ possibilities for participation in athletic competitions, the spreading of the Olympic athletic ideal and the promotion of sportsmanship and fanship among the youth according to egalitarian principles, by stressing a healthy, ethical and social basis as its foundation. Members of "Piraikos Podosfairikos Omilos FC" (Sport and Football Club of Piraeus) and "Piraeus Fans Club FC" decided, during a historical assembly,  to dissolve the two clubs in order to establish a new unified one, which would bring this new vision and dynamic to the community. Notis Kamperos , a senior officer of the Hellenic Navy , proposed the name Olympiacos and the profile of a laurel-crowned Olympic winner as the emblem of the new club. Michalis Manouskos , a prominent Piraeus industrialist , expanded the name to its complete and current status, Olympiacos Syndesmos Filathlon Pireos . Besides Kamperos and Manouskos, among the most notable founding members were Stavros Maragoudakis, the Post Office director, Nikos Andronikos, a merchant, Dimitrios Sklias, a Hellenic Army officer, Nikolaos Zacharias, an attorney, Athanasios Mermigas, a notary public, Kostas Klidouchakis , who became the first goalkeeper in the club's history, Ioannis Kekkes, a stockbroker, and above all, the Andrianopoulos family. Andrianopoulos, a family of well-established Piraeus merchants, played a pivotal role in the founding of Olympiacos. The five brothers, Yiannis , Dinos , Giorgos , Vassilis and Leonidas Andrianopoulos raised the reputation of the club and brought it to its current glory.  Yiannis, Dinos, Giorgos and Vassilis were the first to play, while Leonidas, the youngest of the five, made his debut later on and played for the club for eight years (1927–1935). The club's offensive line, made up of the five brothers, became legendary, rising to a mythical status and soon Olympiacos gained enormous popularity and became the most successful and well-supported club in Greece. Back then, their fan base consisted mainly of the working class , with the team's home ground at Neo Phaliron Velodrome , before moving to its current Karaiskakis Stadium . They became Piraeus Champions in 1925 and 1926.  , In 1926, the Hellenic Football Federation was founded and organized the Panhellenic Championship in the 1927–1928 season . This was the first national championship, where the regional champions from EPSA league ( Athens ), EPSP league (Piraeus) and EPSM league ( Thessaloniki ) competed for the national title during play-offs, with Aris becoming the first champion. The Panhellenic Championship was organized in this manner up until 1958–59. However, in the second season (1928–29) a dispute arose between Olympiacos and the Hellenic Football Federation and as a result, the club did not participate in the championship, with Panathinaikos and AEK Athens deciding to follow Olympiacos. During the course of that season, the three of them played friendly games with each other and formed a group called P.O.K. . Meanwhile, the club continued to dominate the Piraeus Championship, winning the 1926–27, 1928–29, 1929–30 and 1930–31 titles. The fourth Panhellenic Championship took place in 1930–31 and found Olympiacos winning the Greek national league title for the first time in the history of the club, a milestone which marked the beginning of a very successful era in Olympiacos history. Olympiacos put in a great performance during the competition and won the title very convincingly with 11 wins, 2 draws and only one game lost. They managed to score 7 wins in 7 matches at home, beating Panathinaikos , AEK , Aris , Iraklis and PAOK with the same score: 3–1. The sole exception was the match against Ethnikos , where Olympiacos netted 4 goals and won with 4–1. Besides the Andrianopoulos brothers and Kostas Klidouchakis, other notable players of the first era in the club's history (1925–1931) were Achilleas Grammatikopoulos , Lakis Lekkos , Philippos Kourantis , Nikos Panopoulos, Charalambos Pezonis and Kostas Terezakis. , The rise of the new decade marked a substantial rise in Panhellenic Championship's popularity throughout Greece. In October 1931, Giorgos and Yiannis Andrianopoulos , emblematic players and founding members of Olympiacos, retired from active football. However, new heroes emerged, such as Giannis Vazos , Christoforos Raggos , Theologos Symeonidis , Michalis Anamateros , Spyros Depountis , Aris Chrysafopoulos , Nikos Grigoratos, Panagis Korsianos as well as the iconic brothers Giannis and Vangelis Chelmis and the club won five Championships in nine seasons ( 1932–33, 1933–34, 1935–36, 1936–37, 1937–38 ) and by 1940, Olympiacos had already won six Championships in the eleven first seasons of the Panhellenic Championship.  Especially Giannis Vazos, Christoforos Raggos and Theologos Symeonidis composed a formidable trio of attacking players, scoring numerous goals and became nothing short of legendary. Giannis Vazos played for 18 years for Olympiacos (1931–1949), and managed to score 450 goals in 364 games (179 goals in 156 official games) for the club, being the club's second all-time scorer, winning also the Greek Championship top scorer award four times (1933, 1936, 1937 and 1947). In addition, the club managed to win the 1936–37 and 1937–38 Championship titles undefeated. Ιn Greek Cup, the team didn't manage to win the competition in its first four editions, despite some outstanding wins such as the record-setting 1–6 away victory against Panathinaikos in Leoforos Stadium in 1932 ( V. Andrianopoulos 16', 68', 88', Raggos 24', Vazos 69', 70'), which is the biggest away victory in this derby's history .   , On 28 October 1940, Fascist Italy invaded Greece , and several Olympiacos players joined the Hellenic Army to fight against the Axis invaders .  Chistoforos Raggos was heavily injured in his left leg in January 1941, and wasn't able to play football again. Leonidas Andrianopoulos suffered severe frostbite in the Albanian front and almost lost his life, while Nikos Grigoratos was injured in the leg during the Battle of Klisura .  Furthermore, after the subsequent German occupation of Greece , Olympiacos players joined the Greek Resistance and fought fiercely against the Nazis .  Olympiacos player Nikos Godas , an emblematic figure for the club, was captain of the Greek People's Liberation Army (ELAS) and fought against the Germans in many fronts.  He was executed wearing Olympiacos shirt and shorts, as was his last wish: "Shoot me and kill me with my Olympiacos shirt on, and do not blindfold me, I want to see the colours of my team before the final shot."   Michalis Anamateros was also an active member of the Greek Resistance and was killed in 1944. Olympiacos paid a heavy price during the destructive war, the Axis occupation and the ensuing Greek Civil War and the club's progress was put on temporary hold.  , After the war, Olympiacos saw many of its key-players of the pre-war era retire, with many significant changes being made in the team's roster. Olympiacos captain and prolific scorer Giannis Vazos remained in the club, along with Giannis Chelmis. New important players joined the club, such as Andreas Mouratis , Alekos Chatzistavridis , Stelios Kourouklatos and Dionysis Minardos . As soon as regular fixtures recommenced, the Piraeus club returned to their dominant position in Greek football. From 1946 to 1959, Olympiacos won 9 out of the 11 Greek Championships ( 1947 , 1948 , 1951 , 1954 , 1955 , 1956 , 1957 , 1958 , 1959 ), bringing home 15 Championship titles in a total of 23 completed seasons of the Greek League. The 6 straight Greek Championships won by Olympiacos from 1954 to 1959 was an unmatched achievement in Greek football history , an all-time record which stood for 44 years, up until Olympiacos managed to win 7 straight Greek Championships from 1997 to 2003.  Furthermore, during the same period (1946–1959), the club won 8 Greek Cups out of 13 editions ( 1947 , 1951 , 1952 , 1953 , 1954 , 1957 , 1958 , 1959 ), thus completing 6 Doubles (1947, 1951, 1954, 1956, 1957, 1958, 1959), three of which being consecutive (1956–1959).  The legendary Olympiacos team of the 1950s, with key performers such as Andreas Mouratis , Ilias Rossidis , Thanasis Bebis , Ilias Yfantis , Babis Kotridis , Kostas Polychroniou , Giorgos Darivas , Babis Drosos , Antonis Poseidon , Savvas Theodoridis , Kostas Karapatis , Mimis Stefanakos , Thanasis Kinley , Stelios Psychos , Giannis Ioannou , Themis Moustaklis , Vasilis Xanthopoulos , Dimitris Kokkinakis , Giorgos Kansos , Kostas Papazoglou and Aristeidis Papazoglou marked Olympiacos' period of absolute domination in Greek football, which skyrocketed the club's popularity and spread the word of Olympiacos' superiority throughout Greece.  Hence, after the club's record-breaking performance in the trophy-laden era of the 1950s, the club gained the nickname of Thrylos , meaning "The Legend".    , On 13 September 1959, Olympiacos made its debut in Europe against Milan for the 1959–60 European Cup and became the first Greek club that ever played in the European competitions.  The first leg was held in Karaiskakis Stadium in Piraeus and Olympiacos took the lead with a goal by Kostas Papazoglou (1–0), which was the first goal ever scored by a Greek club (and by a Greek player as well) in the European competitions.  Milan's prolific goalscorer José Altafini equalised the match with a header in the 33rd minute, after a cross by Giancarlo Danova . Ilias Yfantis scored an outstanding goal and gave Olympiacos the lead again in the 45th minute of the game, when he controlled the ball between Cesare Maldini and Vincenzo Occhetta and unleashed a powerful volley, burying the ball into the back of the net (2–1).  Altafini scored his second goal once again with a header (72nd minute), after a free-kick by Nils Liedholm . The match ended 2–2, with Olympiacos putting in a great performance against the Italian Champions , despite the fact that they had no foreign players in their roster, while Milan had 4 world-class foreign players, such as Altafini, Liedholm, Schiaffino and Grillo .  In the second leg Milan won 3–1 ( Danova 12', 26', 85' – Psychos 68') and qualified for the next round, despite Olympiacos' good performance especially in the second half. , Olympiacos entered the 1960s by winning the 1960 and 1961 Greek Cups, thus completing five consecutive Greek Cup wins, which is an all-time record in Greek football history . In this decade, a strong side was created with players from the late 1950s and new important players, such as Giannis Gaitatzis , Nikos Gioutsos , Pavlos Vasileiou , Vasilis Botinos , Giannis Fronimidis , Christos Zanteroglou , Grigoris Aganian , Stathis Tsanaktsis , Mimis Plessas , Giangos Simantiris , Pavlos Grigoriadis , Savvas Papazoglou , Stelios Besis , Sotiris Gavetsos, Tasos Sourounis, Vangelis Milisis, Orestis Pavlidis, Panagiotis Barbalias and last but not least the prolific goalscorer Giorgos Sideris , top-scorer in the club's history with 493 goals in 519 matches in all competitions (224 goals in 284 Greek Championshp matches). , In 1963 Olympiacos became the first ever Greek club to win a non-domestic competition, winning the Balkans Cup , which marked the first international success by any Greek football club. The Balkans Cup was a very popular international competition in the 1960s (the 1967 final attracted 42.000 spectators),  being the second most important international club competition for clubs from the Balkans (after the European Champions' Cup ).  Olympiacos topped his group after some notable wins, beating Galatasaray S.K. 1–0 in Karaiskakis Stadium ( Stelios Psychos 49'),  as well as FK Sarajevo (3–2) and FC Brașov (1–0), bagging also two away draws against Galatasaray (1–1) in Mithatpaşa Stadium ( Metin Oktay 78' – Aristeidis Papazoglou 6') and FK Sarajevo in Koševo Stadium (3–3).  In the final, they faced PFC Levski Sofia , winning the first match in Piraeus (1–0, Giorgos Sideris 37') and losing the second match in Vasil Levski Stadium with the same score.  In the third decisive final in Istanbul (neutral ground) Olympiacos beat Levski 1–0 in Mithatpaşa Stadium with a goal by Mimis Stefanakos in the 87th minute and won the Balkans Cup.  , The club went on to win the 1963 and 1965 Greek Cups, completing seven Greek Cup titles in 9 years. However, the years 1959–1965 were not fruitful for Olympiacos in the Greek Championship, as the team wasn't able to win the title for six years. This mediocre performance led Olympiacos board to hire the legendary Márton Bukovi as the club's head coach, with Mihály Lantos (prominent member of the Hungary team of the 1950s widely known as the Mighty Magyars or Aranycsapat ) as his assistant coach.  The innovative Hungarian coach, pioneer of the 4–2–4 formation (along with Béla Guttmann and Gusztáv Sebes ) was a solid tactician and favoured attacking football and very demanding training sessions.  Bukovi's innovatory tactics and groundbreaking training methods transformed Olympiacos and created a powerful, attacking team, with constant player movement and solid combination game that often played spectacular football.  Under Bukovi's guidance and with the great performance of key players such as Giorgos Sideris , Nikos Gioutsos , Kostas Polychroniou , Vasilis Botinos , Aristeidis Papazoglou , Pavlos Vasileiou , Giannis Gaitatzis , Christos Zanteroglou , Grigoris Aganian , Mimis Plessas , Giannis Fronimidis and Orestis Pavlidis, Olympiacos won 2 straight Greek Championships ( 1966 , 1967 ).  They won the 1966 title with 23 wins and 4 draws in 30 games and in the decisive away match against Trikala F.C. , an estimated 15.000 ecstatic Olympiacos fans swarmed into the city of Trikala to celebrate the win (0–5) and the Championship title after 7 years.   The next season 1966–67, Olympiacos won 12 out of the first 14 games in the league, which was an all-time record in Greek football history, which lasted for 46 years and up until 2013, when Olympiacos, under coach Míchel 's guidance, broke his own record by winning 13 out of the 14 first matches of the 2013–14 season .  They won the title in a convincing way and with some notable wins, like the 4–0 smashing victory against arch-rivals Panathinaikos in Karaiskakis Stadium ( Vasileiou 17', Sideris 20', 35', 62'), where Olympiacos played spectacular football and missed a plethora of chances for a much bigger score.  Bukovi became a legend for the club's fans and his creation, the Olympiacos team of 1965–67, became nothing short of legendary. A special anthem was written for Bukovi's Olympiacos and became popular throughout Greece: "Του Μπούκοβι την ομαδάρα, τη λένε Ολυμπιακάρα" ("Bukovi's mighty team is called Olympiacos").  , Shortly before the end of the 1966–67 season, a military coup d'état took place and the Colonels seized power in Greece, establishing a dictatorship. The regime of the Colonels had devastating consequences for Olympiacos.  In December 1967, Giorgos Andrianopoulos , club legend and president of the club for 13 years (1954–1967) was forced out of the club's presidency by the military regime.  Furthermore, the regime canceled the transfer of Giorgos Koudas to Olympiacos  and days later another blow was delivered to the club: Márton Bukovi, already a legend and architect of the great 1965–67 team, was forced out of Greece by the military junta, being labeled a communist.   He left Greece on 21 December 1967, along with Mihály Lantos.  , Another chapter began in 1972, after Nikos Goulandris became president of the club. He reinstated all the prominent members of Olympiacos board that had been forced out by the military regime (including Giorgos Andrianopoulos) and opened-up the member election process, establishing a new, trustworthy board of directors.  He appointed Lakis Petropoulos as head coach and signed top-class players, creating a great roster with key performers such as Giorgos Delikaris , Yves Triantafyllos , Julio Losada , Milton Viera , Panagiotis Kelesidis , Michalis Kritikopoulos , Takis Synetopoulos , Romain Argyroudis , Maik Galakos , Nikos Gioutsos , Giannis Gaitatzis , Vasilis Siokos , Thanasis Angelis , Lakis Glezos , Petros Karavitis , Kostas Davourlis , Giannis Kyrastas , Dimitris Persidis , Lefteris Poupakis and Babis Stavropoulos . Under Goulandris' presidency, Olympiacos won the Greek Championship three times in a row ( 1972–73 , 1973–74 , 1974–75 ), combining it with the Greek Cup in 1973 (beating PAOK 1–0 in the final) and 1975 (beating Panathinaikos 1–0 in the final) to celebrate two Doubles in three years.  Ιn the 1972–73 season, Olympiacos won the title by conceding only 13 goals in 34 matches, which is an-all-time record in Greek football history. The team's best year though, was undoubtedly the 1973–74 season, when Olympiacos won the league with 26 wins and 7 draws in 34 games, scoring an all-time record of 102 goals and conceding only 14. , In European competitions, they managed to eliminate Cagliari in the 1972–73 UEFA Cup , a major force in Italian football during the late 1960s and the early 1970s, ( 1970 Serie A Champions , 1972 Serie A title contenders ), with world-class Italian international players like Gigi Riva , Angelo Domenghini , Enrico Albertosi , Pierluigi Cera , Sergio Gori and Fabrizio Poletti .  Olympiacos managed to beat Cagliari twice, 2–1 in Piraeus and 1–0 in Cagliari , becoming the first ever Greek football club to win on Italian soil.  In the next round they faced the competition's defending Champions Tottenham Hotspur , who were undefeated for 16 straight games in all European competitions. Olympiacos didn't manage to qualify against the Spurs, but they managed to get a 1–0 win in Piraeus , which ended Tottenham's undefeated streak and marked the first ever victory of a Greek football club against an English side.  Two years later, Olympiacos entered the 1974–75 European Cup and they were drawn to face Kenny Dalglish 's Celtic F.C. , one of the strongest teams in European football at that time  and semi-finalists of the previous season . The first leg was played in Celtic Park , where Celtic had never been defeated , running an undefeated streak of 36 straight home games in all European competitions (27 wins, 9 draws) from 1962 to 1974. Olympiacos took the lead through Milton Viera 's strike in the 36th minute, with Celtic equalising late in the game.  The away draw gave Olympiacos the advantage and they finished the job in Piraeus , after a spectacular 2–0 win against the Scottish Champions with Kritikopoulos and Stavropoulos finding the net.  In the next round they were drawn to play against Anderlecht for a place in the quarter-finals of the competition. Anderlecht won the first leg with 5–1 and Olympiacos' task seemed impossible. However, in the second leg in Greece , Olympiacos put on a dominant display and almost reached a winning score, in a match that was marked by referee Károly Palotai 's decisions.  Olympiacos beat Anderlecht 3–0, while Palotai disallowed 4 Olympiacos goals  and didn't give at least 3 clear penalties committed by Anderlecht players,  while Stavropoulos was shown a red card for no good reason.  The match is widely known in Greece as the "Palotai massacre"   with Olympiacos coming close to one of the biggest comebacks in European Cup history. , Following Goulandris resignation from the presidency in 1975, the team went through a relative dry spell in the second half of the 1970s. However, in the summer of 1979, the Greek championship turned professional and Stavros Daifas became owner and president of the club.  Olympiacos emerged again as the dominant force in Greek football, winning the title four times in a row ( 1980 , 1981 , 1982 , 1983 ) with players like the relentless goalscorer Nikos Anastopoulos , Martin Novoselac , Vicente Estavillo , Thomas Ahlström , Roger Albertsen , Maik Galakos , Tasos Mitropoulos , Takis Nikoloudis , Nikos Sarganis , Nikos Vamvakoulas , Vangelis Kousoulakis , Petros Michos , Takis Lemonis , Christos Arvanitis , Petros Xanthopoulos , Stavros Papadopoulos , Meletis Persias , Giorgos Togias and Kostas Orfanos . Kazimierz Górski , the iconic Polish coach, led Olympiacos to the 1980, 1981 and 1983 titles (winning also the Double in 1981, the 9th Double in Olympiacos' history)  while Alketas Panagoulias , who had also been manager of the Greek national football team and the United States national team as well, led the team to the 1982 title after a memorable 2–1 win ( Estavillo 6', Anastopoulos 69') against arch-rivals Panathinaikos in the crucial Championship final match in Volos .  With Panagoulias as head coach, Olympiacos won the 1986–87 title as well, having a solid roster with players from the early 1980s like Anastopoulos , Mitropoulos , Michos , Xanthopoulos and other strong players like Miloš Šestić , Giorgos Vaitsis , Jorge Barrios , Andreas Bonovas , Alexis Alexiou and Vasilis Papachristou .  , Olympiacos experienced its darkest days from the late-1980s until the mid-90s. In the mid-80s Olympiacos came into the hands of Greek businessman George Koskotas who was soon accused of and convicted for embezzlement, leaving Olympiacos deep in debt. The club went through a period of administrative turbulence until 1993, when Sokratis Kokkalis became majority shareholder and president of the club. As soon as he took the club's presidency, Kokkalis agreed a settlement to pay off all the club's debts and started reorganising and restructuring the club.  On the pitch, the team, with all the financial and managerial problems, as well as the lack of strong administrative leadership until the Kokkalis arrival, spent nine seasons without a league title, from 1988 to 1996, despite the foreign top-class players that played for the club at that period, such as Lajos Détári , Oleh Protasov , Juan Gilberto Funes , Bent Christensen , Hennadiy Lytovchenko , Yuri Savichev , Andrzej Juskowiak , Daniel Batista , Fabián Estay and the backbone of solid Greek players like Vassilis Karapialis , Kiriakos Karataidis , Giotis Tsalouchidis , Nikos Tsiantakis , Giorgos Vaitsis , Minas Hantzidis , Theodoros Pahatouridis , Savvas Kofidis , Chris Kalantzis , Gιorgοs Mitsibonas , Ilias Talikriadis , Alekos Rantos , Panagiotis Sofianopoulos , Ilias Savvidis and Michalis Vlachos .  This period is so called as Olympiacos' stone years  Nevertheless, the club brought home the 1990 (beating OFI 4–2 in the final) and 1992 Greek Cups (beating PAOK 2–0 in the second leg of the double final in Piraeus ), as well as the 1992 Greek Super Cup , beating AEK 3–1 in the final. In addition, the team, under the guidance of the legendary Ukrainian coach Oleh Blokhin , managed to reach the quarter-finals of the 1992–93 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , eliminating Arsène Wenger 's AS Monaco , after a hard-fought 1–0 away win in Stade Louis II with a late goal by Giorgos Vaitsis and a goalless draw in Karaiskakis Stadium in the second leg. They didn't manage to qualify for the semi-finals, as they were eliminated by Atlético Madrid (1–1 draw at home, 3–1 loss in Madrid ).  , In 1996, Socratis Kokkalis appointed Dušan Bajević as the team's new head coach.  By that time, Olympiacos had already a very strong roster, with players like Kyriakos Karataidis , Vassilis Karapialis , Grigoris Georgatos , Alexis Alexandris , Giorgos Amanatidis , Nikos Dabizas and Ilija Ivić . Upon Bajević's arrival, Kokkalis decides to strengthen the team significantly, in order to create a very strong roster that will dominate Greek football for years to come. He buys the highly talented hot prospects Predrag Đorđević and Stelios Giannakopoulos from Paniliakos F.C. , outbidding both AEK and Panathinaikos , he signs Refik Šabanadžović , Andreas Niniadis , Siniša Gogić , Giorgos Anatolakis and Alekos Kaklamanos and brings Olympiacos Academy product Dimitris Eleftheropoulos back from his loan spell at Proodeftiki .  With all these players up front, Olympiacos strode to the 1996–97 title by 12 clear points over AEK and 20 points over the third Panathinaikos in Bajevic's first season in charge and celebrated the first Greek Championship after nine sterile seasons, putting an end to the "stone years" and officially beginning Olympiacos' era of domination.  In the next 1997–98 season, Dimitris Mavrogenidis , Ilias Poursanidis and the Ghanaian striker Peter Ofori-Quaye were transferred to the club and Olympiacos won the 1997–98 Championship . Bajevic's team, along with AEK and Panathinaikos, were too close in the table, but finally Olympiacos made an important away win against Panathinaikos (0–2)  and celebrated the second consecutive Championship, with three points difference from Panathinaikos. Olympiacos participated for the first time in the UEFA Champions League group stage and took the 3rd place in a tough group , leaving Porto in the 4th place, while Real Madrid , the eventual European Champions, topped the group and qualified for the quarter-finals. , The 1998–99 season was undoubtedly one of the best seasons in Olympiacos history.  They won the 1998–99 Greek Championship quite convincingly, with ten points difference from AEK and eleven from the third Panathinaikos and celebrated the domestic Double ,  bringing home the 1998–99 Greek Cup after a convincing 2–0 win against arch-rivals Panathinaikos in the final ( Mavrogenidis 54', Ofori-Quaye 90'), despite the fact that they played for more than 60 minutes in the game with ten players.  In European competitions, they entered the 1998–99 UEFA Champions League group stage, being drawn in a group with AFC Ajax , Porto and Croatia Zagreb . They won the group and qualified to the quarter-finals, gathering 11 points with 3 home wins against Ajax (1–0), Porto (2–1) and Croatia Zagreb (2–0) and 2 away draws in Porto (2–2) and Zagreb (1–1). In the quarter-finals of the competition, they faced Juventus , with the first leg in Turin . Juventus took a 2–0 lead, but Olympiacos scored a crucial away goal in the 90th minute of the game with a penalty by Andreas Niniadis , a goal that caused the 10.000 Olympiacos fans who travelled to Italy  to erupt into joyous ecstasy. In the second leg in Athens , Olympiacos totally donimated the match, and scored the goal that put them in the driving seat in the 12th minute of the game, when Siniša Gogić 's powerful header found the back of the net after Grigoris Georgatos 's superb cross. They also missed an outstanding chance to double the lead, when Giorgos Amanatidis 's powerful header from short distance was saved by Michelangelo Rampulla .  Olympiacos kept the ticket to the semi-finals in his hands until the 85th minute, when Juventus, who hadn't produced any chances in the game, equalised the score after a crucial mistake by Dimitris Eleftheropoulos , who had been the team's hero in all the previous games.  Despite the big disappointment from the way the qualification to the semi-finals was lost, the presence of the team in the Champions League quarter-finals, their best-ever European campaign, combined with the domestic Double , marked a very successful season for the club, arguably the best in their long history.  , The next four seasons ( 1999–00 , 2000–01 , 2001–02 , 2002–03 ) Olympiacos signed world-class players of great magnitude such as Giovanni , Zlatko Zahovič and the World Champion Christian Karembeu as well as other top-class players like Pär Zetterberg , Zé Elias , Nery Castillo , Christos Patsatzoglou , Lampros Choutos and Stelios Venetidis . These transfers strengthened even more the already strong roster from the previous successful years and under the guidance of coaches like Giannis Matzourakis , Takis Lemonis and Oleg Protasov (Bajević had left the club in 1999) Olympiacos managed to win seven consecutive Greek Championships ( 1997 – 2003 ), breaking their own past record of six ( 1954 – 1959 ). Olympiacos won their 7th consecutive title after a breathtaking closing of the 2002–03 Greek League : Olympiacos was hosting arch-rivals Panathinaikos in matchday 29, who led the table with a three-point difference. Olympiacos needed to win the derby by two clear goals in order to overthrow their rivals in the championship race.  Olympiacos thrashed Panathinaikos 3–0 ( Giovanni 3', Giannakopoulos 15' 48') in a dominant display in Rizoupoli  and celebrated the all-time record of seven straight Championships, which was a dream and a historic objective for the club and especially for the fans.  , In 2004, Olympiacos rehired Dušan Bajević and signed the 1999 World Footballer of the Year and 2002 World Champion Brazilian superstar Rivaldo and the 2004 European Champion Antonis Nikopolidis . The end of the season found Olympiacos winning the domestic Double and having a decent Champions League display, gathering 10 points in a tough group with Liverpool , Monaco and Deportivo de La Coruña and losing the qualification to the knockout phase in the last four minutes of the last game against the eventual European Champions Liverpool in Anfield . Bajević left the club and the Norwegian coach Trond Sollied was hired in his place.  They club signed Cypriot striker Michalis Konstantinou from arch-rivals Panathinaikos, 2004 European Champion defender Michalis Kapsis from Bordeaux and the versatile box-to-box Ivorian midfielder Yaya Touré . During the season 2005–06 , Olympiacos won all the four derbies against their major rivals, Panathinaikos and AEK Athens, something only achieved once more, during the season 1972–73 . The combined goal total in these four matches was 11–3 in favour of Olympiacos. They also beat AEK Athens 3–0 in the Greek Cup Final to clinch their second straight Double and managed to win an all-time record of 16 consecutive matches in the championship, breaking their own past record.  , After a record-breaking season, in the 2006 summer transfers, Trond Sollied signed Michał Żewłakow , Júlio César and Tomislav Butina among others. However, he did not live up to expectations in the UEFA Champions League 2006–07 and was replaced by Takis Lemonis at the end of 2006. Lemonis transferred the young star Vasilis Torosidis , and led Olympiacos in their third consecutive championship, but failed to win the Greek Cup after a surprise elimination by PAS Giannina .  , In the summer of 2007, Olympiacos made very expensive transfers like Luciano Galletti , Darko Kovačević , Raúl Bravo , Lomana LuaLua , Cristian Ledesma and Leonel Núñez . They also brought back the solid Greek defender Paraskevas Antzas and signed the very talented young striker Kostas Mitroglou from Borussia Mönchengladbach . Furthermore, they accomplished the most lucrative sale in Greek football history, by selling striker-midfielder Nery Castillo to Ukrainian club Shakhtar Donetsk for the record sum of €20 million ($27.5 million).  Because of a clause in Castillo's contract, Olympiacos received €15 million and the remaining €5 million were given directly to the player.  Furthermore, a controversy started between the team and Rivaldo, as Olympiacos did not wish to renew the player's contract, despite the fact that Rivaldo had featured heavily in the club's successful campaigns, both in Greece and abroad. Former player Ilija Ivic was selected for the role of the team's football director. The team didn't start well in the Greek championship, but it achieved a stunning performance in the Champions League , qualifying for the last 16 as they finished second in their group, level on eleven points with group-winners Real Madrid , eliminating Werder Bremen and Lazio .  However, the team's less than satisfactory performance in the league, coupled with the defeat from Chelsea in Stamford Bridge for the knockout phase, prompted club owner Sokratis Kokkalis to sack coach Takis Lemonis. The team's assistant manager, Jose Segura , coached the team for the remainder of the season. Olympiacos managed to win both the Greek Championship and Cup, but Segura left the club at the end of the season. , In the summer of 2008, Olympiacos made prominent transfers, signing Dudu Cearense , Avraam Papadopoulos , Diogo Luis Santo and Matt Derbyshire and appointed Ernesto Valverde as the new coach with a three-year contract worth approximately €6 million.  The 2008–09 season started badly for Olympiacos, with the team losing their first few official matches, against Anorthosis Famagusta for the Champions League third qualifying round , and was eliminated from the tournament, which resulted to a seat in the UEFA Cup first round , where Olympiacos beat Nordsjælland to qualify for the group stage. The team also started well in the Super League Greece 2008–09 , winning every match at home, but facing difficulties away. They ended up winning the Greek Championship and the Greek Cup, celebrating the 14th Double in Olympiacos history. After an impressive UEFA Cup run at home, with some spectacular wins against Benfica (5–1) and Hertha Berlin (4–0), the team managed to get through to the round of 32, facing French side Saint-Étienne . , In the summer of 2009, Olympiacos signed major players, such as Olof Mellberg from Juventus for €2.5 million,  midfielder Jaouad Zairi from Asteras Tripolis , and Enzo Maresca from Sevilla . Many other players returned from loan spells, such as former Real Madrid defender Raúl Bravo , Georgios Katsikogiannis and Argentine midfielder Cristian Raul Ledesma . Olympiacos appointed former Brazil legend Zico as their coach and started the 2009–2010 season with great success, as they qualified for the Champions League final 16, finishing 2nd in Group H only 3 points behind Arsenal ,  despite the absence of numerous first-team players due to injuries. They faced Bordeaux in the final 16 and lost the first match at home (0–1). In the second match, despite Bordeaux's early lead, Olympiacos leveled the match and missed some great chances to score a second goal, before eventually losing in the duying moments of the match (1–2). Domestically, Olympiacos secured a 2–0 derby win over arch-rivals Panathinaikos, with striker Kostas Mitroglou scoring twice.  , In 2010 Evangelos Marinakis , a successful shipping magnate, bought the team from Sokratis Kokkalis .  During the first year of his presidency, Marinakis appointed fans' favourite Ernesto Valverde as coach (who came back for a second –equally successful– tenure in the club) and signed players with international magnitude such as Albert Riera , Ariel Ibagaza , Kevin Mirallas , Marko Pantelić and François Modesto .  As a result, Olympiacos won the Greek title for the 38th time in its history, 13 points ahead of the second Panathinaikos. , In 2011–12 season, the team's roster was strengthened with players like Jean Makoun , Pablo Orbaiz , Ivan Marcano , Rafik Djebbour and Djamel Abdoun and with Ernesto Valverde as their coach for the second straight season, Olympiacos had a very successful campaign both domestically and internationally. They won both the Greek league and the Greek Cup to complete the 15th domestic Double in the club's history.  In European competitions, Olympiacos had a solid Champions League campaign, having been drawn in Group F against Arsenal , Borussia Dortmund and Marseille . Despite delivering 9 points in the group, with two emphatic wins against Arsenal and Dortmund at home (both with a 3–1 scoreline) and an away win against Marseille (0–1), they lost the qualification to the knock-out stage after Marseille's controversial 2–3 away win in Dortmund in game 6, with Marseille scoring 2 goals in the last 5 minutes of the match to come back from an early 2–0 Dortmund lead.  Olympiacos continued in Europa League where he was drawn to play against Rubin Kazan . The Greek champions eliminated the Russian side with two wins (1–0 in both Kazan and Piraeus ) and were up to play against Metalist Kharkiv in the Last 16 of the competition.  They won the first match in Ukraine with David Fuster scoring the winning goal (0–1) but in the second match, despite their early lead and the plethora of missed chances (they hit the woodwork twice in the first half), they conceded two goals in the last nine minutes of the game and lost the qualification to the quarter-finals. , At the end of the season Ernesto Valverde announced his decision to return to Spain , thus ending his second successful spell at Olympiacos. The club announced the Portuguese Leonardo Jardim as their new head coach.  The team performed very well in the Greek league and had a decent Champions league campaign, gathering 9 points in Group B , after wins against Arsenal (2–1 at home) and Montpellier (1–2 in Montpellier , 3–1 in Piraeus). Despite the relatively good results, Leonardo Jardim was replaced by the Spanish coach and Real Madrid legend Míchel . The team went on to celebrate the 16th Double in their history, by winning their 40th Greek Championship , 15 points ahead the second PAOK, as well as their 26th Greek Cup after a 3–1 win against Asteras Tripolis in the final. The 40th Greek Championship title gave Olympiacos the 4th star on top of the club's emblem, which was a major goal for the club and especially for the fans.  , The expectations for the 2013–14 season were very high, especially after the signing of players like the Argentine world-class striker Javier Saviola , Joel Campbell , Roberto , Alejandro Domínguez , Vladimir Weiss , Delvin N'Dinga and Leandro Salino . Olympiacos had a great season both domestically and internationally;  in Europe, they were drawn in Group C of the 2013–14 Champions League against Paris Saint-Germain , Benfica and Anderlecht . After a great performance in the group, Olympiacos finished second with 10 points and qualified for the Last 16 at the expense of Benfica (1–0 win in Piraeus, 1–1 draw in Lisbon ) and Anderlecht (0–3 win in Brussels , 3–1 win in Piraeus). In the Last 16, they were drawn to play against Manchester United . Olympiacos, after a solid display, won the first leg with a comfortable 2–0 ( Domínguez 38', Campbell 55'), in a match where they dominated totally and missed chances to even extend the lead.  Despite the two-goal advantage which put them within touching distance of a quarter-final place for the first time since 1999, Olympiacos lost 3–0 in the second leg in Old Trafford , having missed an outstanding double chance to equalize the score in minute 40'. The Greek champions pushed on in the last 10 minutes to find the crucial away goal, but to no avail. Although the ticket to the quarter-finals slipped out of the club's hands, Olympiacos' overall performance and the fact that the club managed to qualify to the knockout phase (Last 16) of the Champions League for the third time in six years ( 2007–08 , 2009–10 , 2013–14 ), marked a very successful European campaign. Domestically, Olympiacos won their history's 41st Greek Championship very convincingly, 17 points ahead of the second PAOK.  , In 2014–15 season, Olympiacos entered the 2014–15 UEFA Champions League group stage with hopes to repeat the last year's performance and were drawn against Atlético Madrid , Juventus and Malmö FF .  They had a solid performance in the group, managing to beat last year's runners-up Atletico Madrid 3–2 and eventual finalists Juventus 1–0 at Georgios Karaiskakis Stadium , but they lost the qualification for the knockout stage in the last game: Olympiacos beat Malmö FF 4–2 at home but at the same time Juventus were drawing against Atlético in Italy, securing the crucial one point they needed to qualify. Had Olympiacos and Juventus finished with the same points, Olympiacos would have qualified due to the best aggregate score (away goals) of their two games (1–0 Olympiacos win in Piraeus , 3–2 Juventus win in Turin ).  The third place in the group gave Olympiacos the ticket for the next round of UEFA Europa League , where they were eliminated by the eventual runners-up Dnipro . Domestically, the team had a very successful season, winning the 17th Double in their history. They won their 42nd Greek Championship with 12 points difference from the second Panathinaikos and their 27th Greek Cup , beating Xanthi 3–1 in the final.  , When, in 1925, the merger of the two clubs of Piraeus, Athlitikos Podosfairikos Syllogos Pireos and Omilos Filathlon Pireos, gave birth to the new football club, the latter was unanimously baptized Olympiacos Club of Fans of Piraeus , a name inspired from the Ancient Olympic Games , the morality, the vying, the splendor, the sportsmanship and the fair play ideal that were represented in Ancient Greece . Consequently, after Notis Kamperos 's proposal, the club adopted the laurel-crowned adolescent as their emblem, which symbolizes the Olympic Games winner, a crest that underwent minor changes through the ages. Red and white were chosen as the colours of the crest; red for the passion and victory and white for the virtue and purity.   , The typical kit of the team is that of a shirt with red and white vertical stripes, and red or white shorts and socks. The shirt has taken different forms during the history of the club, for example with thin or wider stripes. The second most common kit is the all-red one and next the all-white one. Olympiacos has used several other colours during its history as an away or third kit, with the most notable of them being the monotint black or silver one. The most common kits of Olympiacos during their history are these below (the year of each one is indicant): , Since 1979, when football became professional in Greece, Olympiacos had a specific kit manufacturer and since 1982 a specific shirt sponsor as well. The following table shows in detail Olympiacos kit manufacturers and shirt sponsors by year: , The Karaiskakis Stadium ( Greek : Γήπεδο Γεώργιος Καραϊσκάκης ), situated at the Faliro area of Piraeus , Greece, is the traditional and current home ground of Olympiacos. Named after Georgios Karaiskakis , national hero of the Greek War of Independence , it hosts Olympiacos home matches for the most of the club's history.  , It was built in 1895 as a velodrome , to host the cycling events for the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens . Its official name was Neo Phaliron Velodrome ( Greek : Ποδηλατοδρόμιο Νέου Φαλήρου ) and the pitch was covered with curm. Olympiacos started using it since its foundation in 1925. In 1964, the stadium was renovated, taking its current name and the shape it had until 2003, with an athletics track around the pitch.  Being one of the most important sport venues in Greece, it hosted the 1969 European Athletics Championships and the 1971 European Cup Winners' Cup Final between Chelsea and Real Madrid .  , Olympiacos left the Karaiskakis Stadium temporarily, to play home games at the newly built Athens Olympic Stadium , in 1984. After a five-year use of the biggest stadium in Greece, the team returned to their traditional home, where they played until 1997. It was then that Olympiacos got back to the Athens Olympic Stadium, where they stayed for another period of five years. In 2002, the Olympic Stadium was closed for renovation works due to the 2004 Summer Olympics and Olympiacos moved to the Georgios Kamaras Stadium in Rizoupoli , home of Apollon Smyrnis , for the following two seasons. , The Karaiskakis Stadium had fallen in disrepair and its use was passed to Olympiacos in April 2003; the club took the responsibility to build a new football-only ground in its place, to be used for the football tournament of the 2004 Olympics.  In return, Olympiacos got exclusive use of the stadium until 2052, covering all maintenance costs and also paying 15% of revenue to the State. The old stadium was demolished in the spring of 2003 and the whole project was constructed in the record period of 14 months. It was completed on 30 June 2004 at a total cost of € 60 million.  Nowadays, the Karaiskakis Stadium is one of the most modern football grounds in Europe, also hosting the museum of Olympiacos  and several facilities around. , The history of the Karaiskakis Stadium and Olympiacos was marked by the worst tragedy that ever hit Greek sports , known as the Karaiskakis Stadium disaster . On 8 February 1981, Olympiacos hosted AEK Athens for a League match, which ended 6–0, in an unprecedented triumph for the host team of Piraeus. During the last minutes of the game, thousands of Olympiacos fans at the Gate 7 rushed to the exit, to get to the stadium's main entrance and celebrate with the players, but the doors were almost closed and the turnstiles still in place, making the exit almost impossible.  As people continued to come down from the stands, unable to see what happened, the stairs of Gate 7 became a death trap; people were crushed, tens of fans were seriously injured and twenty-one young people died, most of them by suffocation .  , In memory of this event, every year on February 8, there is a memorial service at the stadium in honor of the supporters that died in that incident. The service is attended by thousands of fans every year, who are rhythmically shouting the phrase "Αδέρφια, ζείτε, εσείς μας οδηγείτε." (Adhélfia, zíte, esís mas odhiyíte, "Brothers, you live, you are the ones who guide us."). At the tribune part of the stadium where Gate 7 is now, some seats are colored black instead of red, shaping the number "7", whereas there is also a monument on the eastern side of the stadium, bearing the names of all 21 supporters killed on that day in the stadium.  , Even though this incident affected almost solely the fanbase of Olympiacos, other teams occasionally pay their respects to the people killed as well, as they consider the incident to be a tragedy not only for one team, but for the whole country. In the past, even foreign teams, such as Liverpool F.C. and Red Star Belgrade have honored the incident's victims.  , Olympiacos' traditional fanbase comes from the city of Piraeus , where the club is based, as well as a good part of the rest of the Athens area. The club's popularity increased during the 1950s after winning consecutive titles and setting several records, and they became the best-supported football club in the country. Traditionally, Olympiacos used to represent the working class , but the club has always attracted fans from all the social classes and their fanbase is not associated with any specific social group anymore.   , Olympiacos is the most popular of the Greek clubs according to UEFA  and numerous polls and researches.   Several newspapers and magazines' polls rank Olympiacos as the most popular club in Greece with a percentage varying between 29–37% among the fans and 20.3–29.3% in total population, which corresponds to around two and a half millions of supporters in Greece.   The club is overwhelmingly popular in Piraeus, where almost half of its population supports Olympiacos,  while their support in the whole of Athens reaches 45.1% of the fans, making them the most popular club in the Greek capital.  They are also the most popular club in the working class with a percentage of 37% and in all age groups,  as well as among both male and female fans;  the vast majority of their fans comes from the centre-left and centre-right of the political spectrum .  Outside of Athens, Olympiacos is the most popular club in Central Greece , the Peloponnese , Thessaly , the Aegean and the Ionian Islands .  Additionally, they have the highest average all-time attendance in Greek football, having topped the attendance tables in most of the seasons in Super League Greece history.  , In 2006, Olympiacos was placed in the top ten of the clubs with the most paying members in the world, holding the ninth place just ahead of Real Madrid .  As of April 2006, the club had some 83,000 registered members.  Olympiacos and Red Star Belgrade fans have developed a deep friendship, calling themselves the Orthodox Brothers . Usually, Olympiacos supporters from several fan-clubs attend Red Star's matches, especially against their old rival Partizan , and vice versa. More recently, the Orthodox Brothers have started to include fans of Spartak Moscow in their club. , Olympiacos fans are renowned for their passionate and fervent support to their team, with the atmosphere at home matches regarded as intimidating. When they played Newcastle United at home in the 2004–05 UEFA Cup , the match was televised in the United Kingdom on Channel 5 and the guest commentator was former England international Tony Cottee , who was constantly mentioning how great the atmosphere was. During the game he was asked whether it was the most atmospheric stadium he had been to and replied: "I'd have to say it probably is. You hear a lot about various places and the atmosphere there but when you go you realise it's not all that... But this place is the real deal."  The experienced Czech international winger Jaroslav Plašil paid further testament to the hostile atmosphere created by Olympiacos fans at home before his team Bordeaux visit Karaiskakis Stadium , where he had played during his time at AS Monaco and stated: "It was one of the most intense atmospheres I've ever experienced in a stadium, so I expect it will be a bit like hell for us. Their supporters really can help their team."  Paris Saint-Germain superstar striker Zlatan Ibrahimović spoke of his admiration for Olympiacos supporters after an Olympiacos–Paris Saint-Germain match on September 17, 2013: " They played in front of their fantastic public. Olympiacos supporters were amazing. My friend Olof Mellberg played here and he talked to me about the supporters. I never saw it live, but now I understand. It's amazing. It's a big advantage for Olympiacos. "   PSG billionaire owner Nasser Al-Khelaifi stated: " I have big respect for the fans here. I've never seen fans like Olympiacos' fans in my life. "  , Red Star Belgrade   , FC Spartak Moscow , Traditionally, Olympiacos' main rival is Panathinaikos and their so-called derby of the eternal enemies is the classic rivalry in the Athens area and Greek football in general.  The two teams are the most successful and most popular Greek football clubs, and the rivalry is also indicative of social, cultural and regional differences; Olympiacos is traditionally seen as the classic representative of the working class of the port city of Piraeus , while Panathinaikos is considered the club of the Athenian higher-class society, although nowadays this differentiation has weakened and the two clubs have similar fanbases.   The two teams are the most successful in Greece and together have won 62 titles (Olympiacos 42, Panathinaikos 20), therefore their rivalries come as no surprise.  The hatred is so intense that many violent incidents have taken place in several regions of Athens, especially before or after a derby. On 29 March 2007, a 22 year old Panathinaikos fan, was stabbed to death at Paiania , a town close to Athens where a women's volleyball game between Olympiacos and Panathinaikos was scheduled to take place that day, during a pre-arranged clash between hooligans of the two clubs. That incident caused major upset in Greece and sparked a large police investigation into the organized supporters scene, while all team sport events in Greece were suspended for two weeks.    The derby in 2012 was abandoned as petrol bombs, flares and missiles were thrown at fans and police at the Olympic Stadium, causing parts of it to be set on fire.  , Another major rival of Olympiacos is AEK Athens , due to their proximity and strong on-pitch rivalry.  The rivalry between Olympiacos and PAOK dates back to the 1960s, when Olympiacos negotiated to acquire the player-symbol of PAOK, Giorgos Koudas . The rivalry also stems from the competition between Athens and Thessaloniki, the two biggest cities in Greece.  Another rival of Olympiacos used to be Ethnikos Piraeus , the second-most successful club of Piraeus, but the rivalry was dissolved when Ethnikos Piraeus was relegated from the top tier of Greek football.  , Olympiacos has a long presence in UEFA competitions , debuting on 13 September 1959. They are currently 22nd in UEFA rankings with 64.020 points, which is an all-time high for the club.  In their last 6 UEFA Champions League participations ( 2007–08 , 2009–10 , 2011–12 , 2012–13 , 2013–14 , 2014–15 ) Olympiacos gathered at least 9 points in all of the groups (11 points in 2007–08, 10 points in 2009–10, 9 points in 2011–12, 9 points in 2012–13, 10 points in 2013–14 and 9 points in 2014–15) and qualified 3 times for the knockout stage (Last 16) of the competition. Their best European campaigns were reaching the quarter-finals of the 1998–99 UEFA Champions League , where they were eliminated by Juventus , losing the semi-final spot in the last five minutes of the second game, and the quarter-finals of the 1992–93 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , where they were eliminated by Atlético Madrid .  , They have a very strong record in home games, with Georgios Karaiskakis Stadium being one of the most fearsome and strong home grounds in Europe.  This has been proved by some long-standing unbeaten sequences, with Olympiacos staying unbeaten for 15 straight Champions League matches, with Manchester United being the first team to beat Olympiacos at home, in the latter's fifth consecutive participation in the tournament with its new format. Furthermore, Olympiacos have won 15 of their last 19 UEFA Champions League games at home from 2009 to 2015. They have an impressive record of wins at home in the European Cup/UEFA Champions League against the greatest clubs in European football, having beaten Real Madrid (2–1), Liverpool (1–0), Manchester United (2–0), Ajax (2–0, 1–0), Juventus (1–0), Arsenal (1–0, 3–1, 2–1), Porto (1–0, 2–1, 1–0), Benfica (1–0, 1–0), Valencia (1–0), Borussia Dortmund (3–1), Atlético Madrid (3–2), Bayer Leverkusen (6–2), AS Monaco (1–0), Celtic (2–0), Lyon (2–1), Anderlecht (3–0, 3–1), Werder Bremen (3–0) and Deportivo La Coruña (1–0), among many others.  , They celebrated their 200th European game on 23 February 2010, against Bordeaux in the first knockout round (Last 16) of the 2009–10 UEFA Champions League . , Olympiacos has a long presence in UEFA competitions , debuting on 13 September 1959 against Milan for the 1959–60 European Cup , being the first Greek team to participate in the European competitions. The first leg was held in Karaiskakis Stadium in Piraeus and Olympiacos took the lead with a goal by Kostas Papazoglou , which was the first goal ever scored by a Greek club (and by a Greek player as well) in the European competitions. The match ended 2–2 ( Papazoglou 19', Yfantis 45' – Altafini 33', 72') with Olympiacos taking the lead two times in the game and putting in a great performance against the Italian Champions . In the second leg Milan won 3–1 and qualified for the next round, despite Olympiacos' good performance especially in the second half.  , In 1963 Olympiacos became the first ever Greek club to win a non-domestic competition, winning the Balkans Cup , which was the first international success by any Greek football club. The Balkans Cup was a very popular international competition in the 1960s (the 1967 final attracted 42.000 spectators). Olympiacos topped his group after some great wins, beating Galatasaray S.K. 1–0, FK Sarajevo 3–2 and FC Brașov 1–0 at home, adding also two away draws against Galatasaray (1–1) and FK Sarajevo (3–3). In the final, they faced PFC Levski Sofia , winning the first match in Piraeus and losing the second match in Bulgaria with the same score. In the third decisive final in Istanbul (neutral ground) Olympiacos beat Levski 1–0 in Mithatpaşa Stadium with a goal by Mimis Stefanakos and won the Balkans Cup.  , In 1963, Olympiacos became the first Greek team to advance to the next round of any European competition, eliminating Zagłębie Sosnowiec from Poland for the 1963–64 European Cup Winners' Cup . They won the first match in Piraeus 2–1, lost the second leg in Poland 1–0 and beat Zagłębie 2–0 in the third decisive match. In the next phase, they faced Olympique Lyonnais and despite their 2–1 in Georgios Karaiskakis Stadium they were eliminated by the strong French side.  , In the 1972–75 Goulandris era, Olympiacos had a solid presence in European competitions, eliminating great clubs, and losing their qualification to the quarter-finals of the 1975 European Cup in a highly controversial game. They managed to eliminate Cagliari in the 1972–73 UEFA Cup , a major force in Italian football during the late 1960s and the early 1970s, ( 1970 Serie A Champions , 1972 Serie A title contenders ), with world-class Italian international players and runners-up of the 1970 FIFA World Cup such as Gigi Riva , one of the greatest strikers of all time and Italy's all-time leading scorer, Angelo Domenghini , Enrico Albertosi , Pierluigi Cera , Sergio Gori , Fabrizio Poletti and Comunardo Niccolai . Olympiacos beat Cagliari twice, 2–1 in Piraeus and 1–0 in Cagliari , becoming the first ever Greek football club to win on Italian soil.  In the next round they faced the competition's defending Champions Tottenham Hotspur . Olympiacos didn't manage to qualify against the Spurs, but they managed to get a 1–0 win in Piraeus , which ended Tottenham's 16-match undefeated streak and marked the first ever victory of a Greek football club against an English side. Two years later, Olympiacos entered the 1974–75 European Cup and they were drawn to face Kenny Dalglish 's Celtic F.C. , one of the strongest teams in European football at that time and semi-finalists of the previous season . The first leg was played in Celtic Park , where Celtic had never been defeated . The match ended 1–1 and the away draw gave Olympiacos the advantage, finishing the job in Piraeus after a 2–0 win against the Scottish Champions .  In the next round they were drawn to play against Anderlecht for a place in the quarter-finals of the competition. Anderlecht won the first leg with 5–1 and Olympiacos' task seemed impossible. However, in the second leg in Greece , Olympiacos put on a dominant display and almost reached a winning score, in a match that was marked by referee Károly Palotai 's decisions. Olympiacos beat Anderlecht 3–0, while Palotai disallowed 4 Olympiacos goals and didn't give at least 3 clear penalties committed by Anderlecht, while Stavropoulos was shown a red card for no good reason. The match is widely known in Greece as the "Palotai massacre" .  , In 1983 Olympiacos entered the 1983–84 European Cup and were drawn against the European powerhouse and Dutch champions AFC Ajax of world-class players like Marco van Basten , Ronald Koeman and Frank Rijkaard . The first leg was held in Amsterdam and ended with 0–0 draw, with Olympiacos holding firm and taking the advantage for the second leg. The second match in Athens was a thriller and a further goalless stalemate, before extra-time when Nikos Anastopoulos scored twice (95', 118') and send Olympiacos through, causing the 80,000 Olympiacos fans in the Olympic Stadium of Athens to burst into frenetic celebrations.  In the Last 16 they faced Portuguese club Benfica , but despite their comfortable 1–0 in Athens , where Anastopoulos scored the goal and lost a crucial penalty as well, they were eliminated after a 3–0 defeat in Lisbon . , In 1992 Olympiacos, coached by Oleh Blokhin , entered the 1992–93 European Cup Winners' Cup and after eliminating Chornomorets Odesa in the first round, they were drawn against Arsène Wenger 's AS Monaco , a very strong side with players like Jürgen Klinsmann , Youri Djorkaeff , Lilian Thuram and Jean-Luc Ettori . Olympiacos eliminated Monaco and reached the quarter-finals after a hard-fought 1–0 away win in Stade Louis II with a goal by Giorgos Vaitsis in the 86th minute and a goalless draw in Karaiskakis Stadium in the second match. They weren't able to qualify for the semi-finals, as they were eliminated by Atlético Madrid , with 1–1 draw at home and 3–1 loss in Vicente Calderón .  , In the 1998–99 UEFA Champions League , one of the most talented ever Olympiacos sides came close to a semi-final appearance. Their campaign began in the second qualifying round, with Cypriot side Anorthosis not able to prevent them from participating in the group stage for a second time in a row. They were drawn in Group A along with Croatia Zagreb , Porto and Ajax , where they managed to win all three home games and secure two away draws, topping the group and getting the ticket for the quarter-finals. There, they were drawn to face Juventus , one of the favourites to win the trophy. In the first leg at the Stadio delle Alpi in Turin , Juventus won Olympiacos 2–1, which meant that the Greek team only needed an 1–0 victory in Athens to proceed. A vintage performance, scoring early with Siniša Gogić and never allowing their opponents to create chances, was five minutes away from making that scenario come true. However, Dimitris Eleftheropoulos , Olympiacos' goalkeeper and team's hero in all the previous games, misjudged the flight of the ball in a seemingly harmless cross and Juventus had the last laugh, escaping with an 1–1 draw from the Athens Olympic Stadium.  , In the 2007–08 UEFA Champions League , Olympiacos had an exceptional European campaign. Drawn in one of the toughest groups of the tournament along with Real Madrid , Werder Bremen and Lazio , Olympiacos finished second with eleven points, the same with group-winners Real Madrid, with the Spanish club taking the top place due to the better results in the two Olympiacos–Real Madrid matches. Following a draw 1–1 to Lazio at home, Olympiacos grabbed a spectacular 3–1 away win against Werder Bremen in Weserstadion , turning the game around from 0–1. In the third game, Olympiacos were finally defeated 4–2 to Real Madrid at the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium , after a heart-breaking match in which the Greek team was playing with 10 men from the 13th minute and was leading the score to the 68th with 2–1, turning it around from 0–1 and wasting a lot of chances to score more. Real Madrid scored their third goal in the 83rd, but Olympiacos came close to score many times during the last minutes of the match and leave Madrid with the draw, when Real secured the win with a last-minute goal, following an outstanding Olympiacos chance to equalise the score, with Iker Casillas saving Darko Kovačević 's powerful header from close. Olympiacos opened the second round of the group stage with a draw 0–0 to Real Madrid at the Karaiskakis Stadium and kept alive the record of being undefeated by Real Madrid in Athens in four matches, while the Reds moved a step closer to qualifying for the Last 16 after coming from behind to defeat Lazio 2–1 in Stadio Olimpico . On December 11, Olympiacos smashed Werder Bremen 3–0 at Karaiskakis Stadium, which ensured their place in the knockout stage of the tournament, where they faced Chelsea . At the first match in Piraeus, the Reds had a scoreless draw against the Blues, but were eliminated in the second leg at the Stamford Bridge after their 3–0 loss.  , In the 2009–10 UEFA Champions League , Olympiacos was drawn in a group against Arsenal , Standard Liège and AZ Alkmaar and qualified comfortably for the Last 16 with 10 points, winning all three games at home against Arsenal (1–0), Standard Liège (2–1) and Alkmaar (1–0), and drawing the match in Alkmaar (0–0). In the knockout stage , they faced Bordeaux and they lost 0–1 in the first round at home, in a closely contested match. In the second match, despite Bordeaux's early lead, Olympiacos leveled the match and missed some great chances to score a second goal, before eventually losing in the duying moments of the match (1–2).  , In the 2013–14 UEFA Champions League they were drawn in Group C against Paris Saint-Germain , Benfica and Anderlecht . After a great performance in the group, Olympiacos finished second with 10 points and qualified for the Last 16 , eliminating Benfica (1–0 win in Piraeus, 1–1 draw in Lisbon ) and Anderlecht (0–3 win in Brussels , 3–1 win in Piraeus). In the Last 16, they were drawn to play against Manchester United , who had never lost to a Greek club before. Olympiacos, after a top-class performance, won the first leg with a convincing 2–0, in a match where they dominated totally and missed chances to even extend the lead. Despite the two-goal advantage which put them within touching distance of a quarter-final place for the first time since 1999, Olympiacos lost 3–0 in the second leg in Old Trafford , having missed an outstanding double chance to equalize the score in minute 40'. The Greek champions pushed on in the last 10 minutes to find the crucial away goal, but they couldn't score.  , Best campaigns , Notable wins , Biggest wins , Notes , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , Olympiacos U20 is the youth team of Olympiacos. They participate in the Superleague U20 championship  and in UEFA Youth League competition. They play their home games at the 3,000-seater Renti Training Centre in Renti , Piraeus.  , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , [ citation needed ] , *only in pre-HFF championships  Football Club Basel 1893 ( German : Fussball Club Basel 1893 ) ( French : FC Bâle 1893 ) widely known as FC Basel or just Basel , and sometimes referred to as FC Basle in English or FCB (not to be confused with FC Barcelona & FC Bayern München ) ,    is a Swiss football club based in Basel . They are one of the most successful clubs in Swiss football, having won the Swiss Super League 17 times, the second most for any Swiss club. Besides their current dynasty, they were most successful in the late 1960s and 1970s, winning the title a total of seven times between 1967 and 1980. The 1980s saw hard times for Basel as they had an absence from European competition for many years and they were relegated in 1987. In the 2000s Basel returned to the top of Swiss football; winning their first title for 22 years in 2002 and won a further eight titles in the years 2004, 2005, 2008, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. FC Basel have also won the Swiss Cup 11 times. , They have competed in European competition every season since 1999–2000. In the 2001–02 season, the club reached the UEFA Intertoto Cup final, losing to Aston Villa ; in the 2002–03 season they qualified for the Second Group Stage of the UEFA Champions League ; and in the 2005–06 season, they reached the quarter-finals of the UEFA Cup . They have been in the Champions League more times than any other Swiss club — a total of six times — and are the only Swiss club to have ever qualified directly for the Champions League group stages. , In the 2011–12 season , FC Basel produced some outstanding results in the Champions League . After a 1–1 away draw against S.L. Benfica , FC Basel tied away 3–3 and then won at home 2–1 against Manchester United , which saw them progress to the knockout phase. Here they were defeated by Bayern Munich on aggregate despite a 1–0 home win. The 2012–13 season saw them scale greater heights as the RotBlau advanced as far as the semi-finals of the Europa League , but there they were beaten by eventual cup winners Chelsea . However directly in the following season, Basel did avenge that defeat with two straight wins during the 2013–14 Champions League . They notched up a surprising 2–1 away win against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge and followed this up with a 1–0 home win in the return fixture at St. Jakob-Park , though Basel ultimately were eliminated in the group stage. The following year, Basel progressed to the last 16 from a group that included European giants Real Madrid and Liverpool courtesy of a 1–1 away draw at Anfield in their final group match. , , , The club FC Basel was started by an advertisement which appeared on 12 November 1893 in the Basler national newspaper requesting that a football team be formed and that anyone who wished to join should meet up the following Wednesday at 8:15 in the restaurant Schuhmachern-Zunft. The advert had been placed by Roland Geldner, who was later elected as first President. Eleven men attended the meeting, these being: Emil Abderhalden, Max Born, Josef Ebinger, Max Geldner, Wilhelm Glaser, Jean Grieder, Ferdinand Isler, Wilhelm Oser, Lucien Schmoll, Richard Strub und John Tollmann. Therefore Fussball Club Basel was founded on 15 November 1893. The club colors from the first day on were red and blue. , FC Basel's first game was on 26 November 1893 against itself, an internal match between two ad hoc formed FCB teams against each other. Two weeks later FCB had their first official appearance, in a game against a team formed by students from the high school gymnastic club. FCB won 2–0. In the early days, the clubs team played only friendly matches, for example the local derby against BSC Old Boys (founded as FC Old Boys Basel in 1894) and also against Grasshopper Club Zurich (founded in 1886). One of the early club captains was Hans Gamper , who later founded FC Barcelona in Spain . , Basel did not compete in the first (unofficial) Swiss football championship which was held 1897–1898 . However, they did contest in the second Serie A championship which was organized by the Swiss Football Association . The series A was divided into three regional groups, East, Central (with FCB) and West. The winner of each group qualified for the finals. Basel did not qualify for the finals and did not compete in the championship the following year, but have not failed since then. FC Basel did not have much of an early footballing success; it took them 40 years to win their first trophy. , At the beginning of the 1932–33 season the Austrian ex-international footballer player Karl Kurz took over as club trainer. There were eight teams in Group 1 of the 1932–33 Nationalliga . Basel finished their season in second position in the table, with seven victories from 14 games. The play-off game between the second placed teams from both groups was played in Basel in the Stadion Rankhof , but the home team lost 3–4 to Servette FC Genève . In the Swiss Cup Basel advanced to the Final, which was played in the Hardturm in Zürich . Basel won the final 4–3, and thus their first ever national title, as they defeated arch-rivals and reigning cup-holders Grasshopper Club Zürich , in what is still considered to be one of the best cup finals in Swiss football history. , During the following five season Basel played in the midfield of the Nationliga, not having much to do with the championship or having to worry about relegation. But the 1938–39 Nationalliga did not mean well with them. With just five wins and with twelve defeats, they finished in the last position in the league table and were relegated. , The 1941–42 season was Basel's third season in the 1st League (second flight of Swiss football) after relegation. Eugen Rupf was player-coach for his second year. Basel finished their season as winners of group East. In the play-offs against group West winners Bern , the away tie ending with a goalless draw and Basel won their home tie 3–1 to achieve Promotion. In the Swiss Cup five home games, a coin toss in the quarter-final and a replay in the semi-final was needed to qualify for the final. The final against Grasshopper Club ended goalless after extra time and a replay was required here too. In the replay, in the Wankdorf Stadion against the Nationalliga champions, Basel led at half time through two goals by Fritz Schmidlin , but two goals from Grubenmann a third from Neukom gave the Grasshoppers a 3–2 victory. , After just three season in the top flight of Swiss football Basel suffered relegation again. But achieved immediate re-promotion in the 1944–45 season. , Anton Schall (another Austrian ex-international) became the club trainer. Basel finished the Nationalliga A season in fourth position, with twelve victories from 26 games, scoring a total of 60 goals. Top league goal scorers were Traugott Oberer (13) and René Bader (10). Basel won the cup for the second time as they beat Lausanne Sports (who had also been runners-up the previous year) 3–0 in the final at the Stadion Neufeld in Bern . Paul Stöcklin scored two goals and René Bader scored the other one. , At the beginning of the 1952–53 season René Bader took over the job as club trainer from Ernst Hufschmid who had acted as trainer the previous five years. Bader acted as player-manager and Willy Dürr was his assistant, Dürr stood at the side line when Bader played. Basel won their first league title in 1953 and ended the season four points ahead of BSC Young Boys . Basel won 17 of the 26 games, losing only once, and they scored 72 goals conceding 38. Josef Hügi was the teams top league goal scorer. , The Czechoslovakian manager Jiří Sobotka was the club manager at this time, he taken the job over from Jenő Vincze the year before. Basel finished the championship in sixth position. Heinz Blumer was Basel's top scorer this season with 16 goals, Karl Odermatt their second best goal scorer with 14. The Wankdorf Stadium hosted the Swiss Cup Final on 15 April 1963 and Basel played against favorites Grasshopper Club Zürich . Two goals after half time, one by Heinz Blumer and the second from Otto Ludwig gave Basel a 2–0 victory and their third Cup win in their history. Peter Füri played in all games except the Final because he became ill. , As explained above, Basel won their first trophy of the new decade in 1963, but, FCB (which is pronounced "Eff Cee Bee" in Swiss German ) didn't come to prominence until the late 1960s under the management of Helmut Benthaus and with quality players such as René Hasler , Ottmar Hitzfeld and Karl Odermatt . , In 1967 Benthaus achieved his first league win with Basel. During this season he acted as player-manager , he taken over the job trainer from Georges Sobotka at the beginning of the previous season. There were 14 teams contesting in the championship and Basel finished just one point clear of FC Zürich . Basel won 16 of the 26 games, drawing eight, losing only twice and they scored 60 goals conceding just 20. Roberto Frigerio was the teams top goal scorer with 16 league goals, Helmuth Hauser second best goal scorer with 14. , In the Swiss Cup final Basel's opponents were Lausanne-Sports . In the former Wankdorf Stadium on 15 May 1967, Helmut Hauser scored the decisive goal via penalty. The game went down in football history due to the sit-down strike that followed this goal. After 88 minutes of play, with the score at 1–1, referee Karl Göppel awarded Basel a controversial penalty. ( André Grobéty had pushed Hauser gently in the back and he let himself drop theatrically.) Subsequent to the 2–1 for Basel the Lausanne players refused to resume the game and they sat down demonstratively on the pitch. The referee had to abandon the match. Basel were awarded the cup with a 3–0 forfait.   , Basel had won the double for the first time in the clubs history. , The league title 1966–67 led to Basel qualifying to play in the European Cup for the first time in 1967–68 . However, Basel were knocked out of the tournament in the First Round by Danish side Akademisk Boldklub . Basel's next league win came in the 1968–69 Nationalliga A season as they once again finished just one point above the runners-up, this time Lausanne Sports . This meant that Basel could embark on another European adventure, but again they failed to overcome the first hurdle, this time it was Celtic of Scotland . , In the 1969–70 season , Basel won the league by one point over Lausanne Sports, once again. The European Cup was a little kinder to Basel in 1970 , as they reached the Second Round, losing to AFC Ajax , after defeating Soviets Spartak Moscow in the first round. Basel did not retain their title the next season despite finishing with the same amount of points as the winners, Grasshopper Club Zürich, who won it on head-to-head. After a trophy-less season, Basel then won two league titles in-a-row, in 1972 and '73 . They also won the League Cup in 1973. In Europe, Basel failed to impress, once again, in 1972 , as they were sent crashing out at the first stage by Hungary's Újpesti Dózsa SC but in the 1973–74 season they excelled with the Peruvian legend Teofilo Cubillas in their ranks, eliminating Icelanders Fram Reykjavík and Club Brugge of Belgium , before narrowly exiting in the quarter-finals to Celtic 5–6 on aggregate. Despite Basel's improvement on the European stage, they did not retain the league for another four years, but they did manage to lift the Swiss Cup in 1975, beating FC Winterthur 2–1 after extra time . , Basel's long awaited title-win came in 1977 as they triumphed over Servette FC in a playoff. This meant that Basel returned to play in the European Cup but they were defeated in the first round, once more, by Wacker Innsbruck of Austria , after showing so much promise on their last European outing. After the success of the 1976–77 season, Basel endured two seasons of below-par performances and mid-table finishes until glory returned in 1980 , as Basel won the Nationalliga A title through the playoff. However, manager Helmut Benthaus left in 1982 and in the following seasons, Basel's final league positions started to drop until their relegation into the Nationalliga B in 1988 . Several managers came and went at St. Jakob Stadium between then and when Basel finally returned to Nationalliga A in 1994 , under Claude Andrey . Basel avoided relegation by three points in their first season back at the top-flight, but Andrey left and was replaced by Karl Engel . Engel led Basel to a fifth-place finish in his first season in charge and a solid mid-table finish in 1997 , but he was sacked after a poor start to the 1997–98 campaign , in which Basel finished second-last. Jörg Berger then took over, but lasted only a year in charge before Christian Gross came. Gross' appointment went hand-in-hand with the financial backing that had just been put into the club and it was not long until Basel returned to the top. , As the St. Jakob-Park was opened on 15 March 2001, success returned. Basel finished the 2000–01 season in fourth position in the league. , The Club's main aim for the 2001–02 season was to win the Swiss Nationalliga A championship title. The second aim was to win the cup title. The team was only changed in a few positions. Biggest signing for the new season were Scott Chipperfield , who came from Wollongong Wolves ,  and Christian Eduardo Giménez , who was signed from Lugano .  Pascal Zuberbühler returned from a one-year loan with Bayer Leverkusen .  Brought up from their reserve team Marco Streller was given a professional contract. Streller was to play his League debut in St. Jakob-Park being substituted in during the 66th Minute on 11 July 2001 in the 3–1 home win against Servette . Unluckily in the last minute of the game he scored an own goal .  It was to remain his only game for Basel in this period, because he was loaned to feeder club FC Concordia Basel for the rest of the season. But Basel's success and Streller's success would evolve parallel during the following years. , The season started some what difficult, but Basel ended the qualification round leading the league table by five points at the winter break. The Championship round began in February and with ten wins and just one defeat in the first eleven games, Basel pulled away at the top of the table to win the championship three games before the end of the season. This was their first championship title after 22 years of waiting. In fact they achieved the double , winning the Swiss Cup Final during extra time against the Grasshoppers thanks to a hands penalty scored by Murat Yakin . Basel also reached the final of the UEFA Intertoto Cup . , , In the 2002–03 season, Basel were the second Swiss team to ever play in the modern Champions League . Their first game was in the second qualifying round against MŠK Žilina of Slovakia . They won 4–1 on aggregate. In the next round, they faced Scottish giants Celtic . In the first leg at Celtic Park , the home side won 3–1, but in the second leg at St. Jakob-Park, Basel came away with a famous 2–0 victory. This meant Basel progressed on the away goals rule after a 3–3 aggregate draw. In the first group stage, Basel were drawn into Group B with Valencia CF , Liverpool , and Spartak Moscow . On Matchday One, Basel defeated Spartak 2–0 at home. Then on Matchday Two, they travelled to Anfield in Liverpool , where they managed to draw 1–1 against Liverpool. After a great start to the group stage, Basel were brought back down to earth when they were defeated 6–2 by Valencia at the Estadio Mestalla . They bounced back, however, and held Valencia to a 2–2 draw in the next fixture. Basel were now sitting in second place in the group but they would still need to win at least one of their last two games and hope that Liverpool would not pick up more than two points to secure that place. In Matchday Five, Liverpool lost 1–0 to Valencia and FCB won 2–0 against Spartak at the Luzhniki Stadium . , Basel's place in the last 16 was all but secured, although they still had to make sure they did not lose to Liverpool in the last game of the first group stage. On the last matchday, Basel were winning 3–0 at half-time through goals from Julio Hernán Rossi , Christian Eduardo Giménez , and Thimothée Atouba . The second half was a different story, though, and Liverpool fought back to draw 3–3. This was still enough for FCB to qualify for the next round. In the last 16, Basel faced Manchester United , Juventus , and Deportivo de La Coruña . They had a poor start, losing back to back games against Manchester United at home and Juventus away. FCB then faced Deportivo in a double-header, with the home side winning 1–0 in both games. Arguably two of FCB's greatest games came next as they held Manchester United to a 1–1 draw at Old Trafford and claimed a 2–1 victory over Juventus at St. Jakob-Park. Despite picking up the same number of points as second placed Juventus, Basel crashed out on goal difference. Basel finished second in the Swiss Super League that season and won the Swiss Cup after beating Neuchâtel Xamax 6–0 in the final. , The Club's main aims for the 2003–04 season were to regain the league title and, as cup holders, to retain their cup title. The third aim was to remain in the UEFA Cup as long as possible. During pre-season Basel won the Uhrencup and the Alpen Cup. After being the surprise package in Europe in the 2002–03 season , Basel could not bring this form into the UEFA Cup in 2003–04 as they were eliminated by Newcastle United in the second round after defeating Malatyaspor in the previous round. , The Super League season started impeccably, Basel won the first thirteen matches straight off. They completed the first half of the season undefeated, with seventeen wins and one draw. Basel remained in top position right up until the end of the season, thus achieving their championship aim. In the club's history this was their tenth championship title. During the season, Marco Streller scored 13 goals in 16 games, thus gathering the interest of a handful of Bundesliga clubs including VfB Stuttgart . , The club's biggest signing in advance of the 2004–05 season was Kléber from Hannover 96 . However Timothée Atouba , Mario Cantaluppi and Marco Streller left the club. During the winter break, they signed Patrick Müller from RCD Mallorca . , As reigning champions, Basel were favourites to retain their league title and as Swiss champions, they entered the Champions League in the third qualifying round. They were drawn against Internazionale , however, and lost 5–2 on aggregate, subsequently dropping into the UEFA Cup. In the first round of the UEFA Cup, Basel defeated the Russian side Terek Grozny 3–1 on aggregate. In the Group Stage, they faced considerabley tougher opponents, being drawn in Group E with Feyenoord , Schalke 04 , Ferencvárosi TC , and Hearts . They finished third in the group on seven points and qualified for the Round of 32, where they were defeated 2–0 on aggregate by Lille OSC . , In the domestic league, the season started difficultly; of the first four home matches, only two were won. Nevertheless, Basel moved to the top of the league table and one of the season's highlights was the 8–1 home win against Grasshopper Club Zürich , in which Christian Giménez scored four goals. Basel completed their 17 home league games undefeated, winning 13 and drawing four. They won the league title ten points ahead of their nearest rivals. , In the third round of the Swiss Cup , Basel were drawn away against FC Thun , but lost 5–4 after penalties . , Basel's biggest signings of the 2005–06 season were defenders Daniel Majstorović and Kōji Nakata , who were brought in to replace Patrick Müller , who was set to sign for Olympique Lyonnais , and the retiring Murat Yakin . Forward Eduardo was signed after a successful loan spell but Argentinian goalscorers Christian Giménez and Julio Hernán Rossi left the club. , As Swiss champions, Basel entered the Champions League third qualifying round against German Bundesliga club Werder Bremen . Basel won the first leg 2–1 at St. Jakob-Park but lost 3–0 at the Weserstadion in the second leg, the aggregate 4–2 in Bremen's favour. Basel were then dropped into the UEFA Cup, where they met NK Široki Brijeg of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first round. Basel sealed a 6–0 aggregate win and were drawn into Group E alongside RC Strasbourg , Roma , Red Star Belgrade , and Tromsø . FCB lost the first group match 2–0 against Strasbourg at home but won 2–1 away to Red Star, giving themselves an opportunity to progress to the next round if they won their next game against Tromsø. They did in a seven-goal thriller, winning 4–3 and securing third place. The last match of the group was against Italian club Roma at the Stadio Olimpico , where the Serie A club won 3–1. In the Round of 32, FCB came up against AS Monaco , who they beat 2–1 on aggregate after a 1–1 stalemate in Monaco and a 1–0 victory for Basel in Switzerland. As Basel progressed to the last 16, they played against Strasbourg once again. FCB won the first leg 2–0 and drew 2–2 in the second leg, winning 4–2 overall. In the quarter-finals the club came up against Middlesbrough . FCB won 2–0 at home and looked certain to progress as they travelled to the Riverside Stadium . This was not the case, however, as Middlesbrough fought back to win the match 4–1 and the tie 4–3. , On 26 February 2006, Basel broke their own club record of 52 unbeaten league games in St. Jakob-Park. The new record is 59, but the streak ended there on the final day of the season with a last-minute goal by Iulian Filipescu of FC Zürich , knocking Basel out of contention and giving Zürich their first national championship since 1980–81. A 60th straight home league match undefeated would have made Basel champions once again, but the final score was 1–2 in favour of Zürich. This resulted in riots and property damage between hooligans of both the FCB and their rival supporters after the match (see 2006 Basel hooligan incident for more details). , Various signings involving FCB took place during the 2006–07 Swiss Super League season. The most notable of these were the replacement of local hero Pascal Zuberbühler , who departed for West Bromwich Albion , with Argentina international Franco Costanzo and the signing of Delron Buckley on loan from Borussia Dortmund . Zdravko Kuzmanović left the club during the Winter break for Fiorentina . , FC Basel's European campaign started in the first qualifying stage of the UEFA Cup, when they beat Kazakh side FC Tobol 3–1 on aggregate. In the second round they played against Liechtensteiner team FC Vaduz , narrowly progressing on the away goals rule after a 2–2 aggregate draw. They were then put up against Macedonians FK Rabotnički . Basel won 6–2 at St. Jakob-Park and 1–0 at the Skopje City Stadium to qualify for the group stages where they faced tough opposition, Blackburn Rovers , AS Nancy , Feyenoord , and Wisła Kraków . Basel's first game came against Feyenoord at home. They came away with a respectable 1–1 draw. Their next group match was at Ewood Park against Blackburn . Basel played reasonably well but shaky defending became their downfall. Nancy, at home, were their next opponents and the match ended in a 2–2 draw. Basel's last group game was against Wisła Kraków at the Wisła Stadium . FCB needed a win to qualify but their poor European campaign came to an end after losing 3–1 despite taking an early lead through Mladen Petrić . , Basel won the Swiss Cup after beating FC Luzern 1–0. The winning goal came from the penalty spot through Daniel Majstorović in the 93rd minute. , FCB finished in second place in the Swiss Super League , just one point behind winners FC Zürich . This was despite the club defeating Zürich in all three of their meetings in that league campaign. , At the beginning of the 2007–08 season Basel strengthened their team by signing Switzerland internationals Marco Streller from VfB Stuttgart , Benjamin Huggel from Eintracht Frankfurt , and David Degen on loan from Borussia Mönchengladbach . Fans' favourite Mladen Petrić joined Borussia Dortmund in a big-money deal and influential defender Boris Smiljanić returned to his former club of Grasshopper Club Zürich . Highly rated Switzerland Under-21 defender Beg Ferati arrived at St. Jakob-Park in January from feeder club FC Concordia Basel on a three-and-a-half year contract. He was joined by veteran striker Vratislav Lokvenc from Red Bull Salzburg and exciting midfielder Marko Perović from Red Star Belgrade , who also arrived during the Winter break. , Basel were drawn against Bosnian minnows FK Sarajevo in the first qualifying round of the UEFA Cup , a tie that Basel won 8–1 on aggregate. In the next round, Basel faced a considerably tougher opponent in the form of SV Mattersburg of Austria. Nonetheless, Basel finished the tie off with a 4–0 away win after a 2–1 victory at St. Jakob-Park. Basel were then drawn into a 'death group' of Group D alongside SK Brann , Dinamo Zagreb , Hamburger SV and Rennes , all of which were ranked within the top three of their own leagues at the start of the stage. Basel won their first UEFA Cup group game against Rennes at home 1–0 thanks to a Marco Streller header. Their next game was away to Dinamo Zagreb in which Basel earned a valuable away point thanks to on form goalkeeper Franco Costanzo who kept the game at 0–0 for 90 minutes. They then faced Brann at St. Jakob-Park, where they won 1–0 through a Carlitos free-kick and were highly praised for playing attractive and flowing football. Basel then went to Germany to face Hamburg at the HSH Nordbank Arena , where they were fortunate to escape with a 1–1 draw. The goals came courtesy of captain Ivan Ergić and Hamburg's Ivica Olić . Basel then faced Sporting Clube de Portugal in the last 32 after qualifying second in the group alongside first placed Hamburg and third placed Brann. Sporting finished third in their group in the Champions League, which is why they were dropped into the UEFA Cup. The first leg took place on 13 February in Lisbon , where the first choice goalkeeper, Franco Costanzo , was injured and Basel lost 2–0. The second leg did not fare any better for Basel. Costanzo remained injured and Basel lost 3–0 on 21 February in Basel, resulting in the knock out of the UEFA Cup. , , Basel won the Swiss Cup for the second consecutive season after beating second-tier side AC Bellinzona 4–1 at St. Jakob-Park on 6 April 2008. Eren Derdiyok gave Basel the lead in the first half before Bellinzona equalised through Christian Pouga in the second. Daniel Majstorović restored the lead for Basel with a header and Swiss internationals Marco Streller and Benjamin Huggel scored one goal each to make the final scoreline 4–1 in Basel's favour. , Basel won the Swiss Super League for the first time since 2005 on 10 May 2008 at home after a 2–0 win over title threats BSC Young Boys . It was the last game of the season and Basel only needed a point from the match to win the Championship but if Young Boys won, then they would be champions, exactly the same situation as the end of the 2005/06 season with FC Zürich . The painful memories of losing the league on the last day of the season in 2006 seemed to spur FCB on as they took an early lead through Valentin Stocker before Marco Streller wrapped up the victory with the second. , This rounded off a highly successful season for Basel as they conquered on the domestic front, winning both the Swiss Super League and Swiss Cup, and reaching the last 32 of the UEFA Cup. , Prior to the 2008–09 season, FCB added to their squad by signing defenders Behrang Safari from Malmö FF and David Abraham from Gimnàstic de Tarragona , and midfielders Jürgen Gjasula and Marcos Gelabert from FC St. Gallen . Fans' favourite Daniel Majstorović left the club for AEK Athens F.C. and Kōji Nakata returned to the J. League with Kashima Antlers , while Vratislav Lokvenc and David Degen 's loan deals were not re-newed. Ivan Ergić resigned from being club captain before the start of the season, and Franco Costanzo was unveiled as the new captain a day before the season kicked off. , Basel played their opening game of the season in Bern on 18 July 2008 against BSC Young Boys , which they won 2–1 with goals coming from substitutes Marko Perović and Benjamin Huggel after Eudis put the home side ahead. , Basel entered the Champions League in the Second Qualifying Round and were drawn against IFK Göteborg of Sweden . The first leg was on 30 July 2008 at Ullevi and finished 1–1. Benjamin Huggel put Basel ahead before Thomas Olsson equalised for the home team. The second leg took place on 6 August at St. Jakob-Park ; with Basel coming from behind twice to win 4–2. Pontus Wernbloom put Göteborg ahead on 19 minutes before Benjamin Huggel equalised soon after. Early in the second half Robin Söder restored Göteborg's lead but Basel fought back, with Scott Chipperfield equalising. Then Basel got a penalty due to a supposed hands ball in the box. Replays showed that the referee had made the wrong decision. The penalty was scored and eventually led to the victory. Basel then faced Vitória S.C. of Portugal in the Third Qualifying Round. The first leg at Estádio D. Afonso Henriques , on 13 August ended honours even, in a 0–0 draw. The second leg took place on 27 August at St. Jakob-Park where Valentin Stocker gave Basel an early lead on 11 minutes before João Alves was fouled in the penalty area by François Marque and João Fajardo dispatched the spot-kick, just four minutes later to draw Vitória level. In the second half, the away side started well but Eren Derdiyok gave FCB a 2–1 lead which they hung on to, to qualify for the UEFA Champions League Group Stages. , FCB were drawn into Group C alongside FC Barcelona , FC Shakhtar Donetsk and Sporting Clube de Portugal . Basel lost their opening game 2–1 at St. Jakob-Park on 16 September against Shakhtar . Fernandinho put the Ukrainians ahead on 25 minutes before Jádson doubled their lead just before half time. David Abraham scored a late consolation goal for the home team. Sporting Lisbon were the opponents on Matchday 2 (1 October) and despite defending well and causing a few scares at the other end of the park, Basel were defeated 2–0 at the Estádio José Alvalade . On Matchday 3 (22 October), Barcelona visited Basel and came away with a 5–0 win, but a fortnight later it was a different story as FCB came away with a respectable 1–1 draw at the Camp Nou , with Eren Derdiyok scoring a late equaliser after Lionel Messi put Barça ahead. On 26 November Basel travelled to Ukraine, to play Shakhtar, where they were thrashed 5–0. Basel then faced Sporting at home on the final Matchday (9 December) and were defeated 1–0. , On 16 April 2009, FCB were eliminated from the Swiss Cup in the Semi-Final after losing 3–2 on penalties to Young Boys . The score was 0–0 after 90 minutes and extra time. , Despite remaining in first or second position for most of the season, Basel finished in third place behind FC Zürich and Young Boys . On 24 May 2009, Basel lost 4–1 against Grasshopper Club Zürich , meaning that they could no longer win the Swiss Super League and that FC Zürich were crowned champions. Three days later, on 27 May FCB lost 3–0 to Young boys, therefore also surrendering the Vice-Championship. On 27 May Christian Gross was sacked from his role as FC Basel manager after ten years in the job. , German Thorsten Fink was appointed as Basel's new manager on 9 June 2009.  Basel let several players go, not extending the contracts with Ronny Hodel , Jürgen Gjasula , Ivan Ergić and Eduardo . Star striker Eren Derdiyok was sold to Bayer 04 Leverkusen , and Eduardo Rubio returned to Cruz Azul . A number of players were brought up into the first team from the under-21 squad and a number of new players were signed, Alexander Frei from Borussia Dortmund , Çağdaş Atan from Energie Cottbus , Samuel Inkoom from Asante Kotoko , Massimo Colomba from Grasshopper and Antônio da Silva on loan from Karlsruher SC . , Basel entered the Europa League in the second qualifying round. They qualified for the Group stage and were drawn into Group E alongside A.S. Roma ( Italy ), Fulham ( England ) and CSKA Sofia ( Bulgaria ). Basel finished in third place. , In domestic affairs Basel swept the board, despite a poor start to the season, and won the title on the last day of the season against favourites BSC Young Boys at the Stade de Suisse . Young prospect Valentin Stocker and club legend Scott Chipperfield gave Basel the goals in the 2–0 win on 16 May. Marco Streller was the league's top scorer with 21 goals. , On 9 May, FC Basel won the 2009–10 Swiss Cup final with outstanding 6–0 victory over FC Lausanne-Sport , Stocker scoring twice, and Shaqiri, Zoua, Chipperfield and Huggel scoring the others. The win secured FC Basel's tenth Cup win to date. , The 114th season of the Swiss Super League began on 19 July 2010. Stefan Wessels, Marcos Gelabert, Antonio Da Silva, Carlos Alberto Alves Garcia "Carlitos" and Serkan Sahin left the club. Four players from the under-21 squad, the brothers Taulant and Granit Xhaka, Mattias Baron and Janick Kamber, were brought up to the first team. Yann Sommer returned from his spell on loan to Grasshopper Club Zürich and Gilles Yapi Yapo ( BSC Young Boys ) and Fwayo Tembo ( Étoile Sportive du Sahel ) were bought to complete the new squad. FC Basel's first game was on 20 July at home against FC Zürich which resulted with a 3–2 win. , Basel entered the 2010–11 UEFA Champions League in the third qualifying round, drawn against Debreceni VSC they won both games (2–0, 3–1). In the play-offs to the Champions League they are drawn against FC Sheriff Tiraspol . In the first leg they defeated Tiraspol 1–0 before winning 3–0 on the road. Basel entered the 2010–11 UEFA Champions League group stage in group E. , The 115th season of the Swiss Super League began on 16 July 2011. Thorsten Fink started the season as Manager of the first team. His Assistant was Heiko Vogel and Fitness Coach was Nikola Vidović . Thorsten Fink named Marco Streller as new team captain.  On 13 October 2011, Fink left the club and signed a contract with Hamburger SV to manage the club through to 2014. As replacement his assistant Vogel was signed as caretaker Manager until the winter break.  Vogel's first three games in charge of the team were the Swiss Cup fixture on 15 October, which ended in a 5:1 away win against FC Schötz ,  the Champions League Group C fixture on 18 October 2011, a 0:2 home defeat against Benfica ,  and the 1:0 away win in the Super League against FC Zürich.  Basel historically qualified for the knockout phase of the UEFA Champions League with 2–1 win over Manchester United on 7 December 2011. That sent Manchester United down to the UEFA Europa League for the first time in Alex Ferguson 's reign.  On 12 December it was announced that Vogel had signed as head coach and manager.  On 22 February 2012, Basel defeated FC Bayern Munich in the first leg of the Round of 16 stage in the UEFA Champions League. They won with a score of 1–0, scoring in the 86' minute of the game but lost in the return leg 7–0 thus eliminating them. , Basel's biggest signings ahead of the 2012–13 season were Gastón Sauro , who transferred from Boca Juniors , Mohamed Salah from El Mokawloon SC and Marcelo Díaz , who came from Universidad de Chile . Díaz was transferred to Basel in a US$4 million deal and signed a four-year contract. , Basel's 2012–13 Swiss Super League season began on 13 July 2012 with the away tie against Servette FC .  The season started unsuccessfully, only four wins but six draws and one defeat during the first eleven games. On 15 October 2012 Manager Heiko Vogel was sacked by the club and replaced by Murat Yakin .  At the end of the first half of the season Basel were in second position in the domestic league table. In the second half of the season Basel acquired enough points to finish the season three points ahead of Grasshoppers and to win their fourth title in a row.  , As Swiss champions, Basel entered the UEFA Champions League in the second qualifying round and were drawn against Estonian club Flora Tallinn , winning 5–0 on aggregate. In the third round they were drawn against Norwegian club Molde FK , winning 2–1 on aggregate. However, in the Playoff round, Basel lost both games against CFR Cluj from Romania (being knocked out 3–1 on aggregate). The team thus qualified for the 2012–13 UEFA Europa League group stage and were drawn in Group G along with Sporting Clube de Portugal , K.R.C. Genk and Videoton FC . They finished in second place in the table and thus continued after the winter break in the knockout phase round of 32 . , During the winter break Basel announced that they had signed Serey Die from Sion on a three and a half year contract,  Endogan Adili from Grasshoppers Zürich also on a three and a half year contract  and Raúl Bobadilla on a contract until 2017.  It was also announced that they had signed Mohamed Elnenny on a loan contract lasting up until the end of June 2013.   , In the knockout phase round of 32 Basel were drawn against Dnipro Dnipropetrovsk . Basel won 3–1 on aggregate. In the round of 16 they were drawn against Zenit St. Petersburg and, despite being the underdogs, they qualified for the quarter-finals by winning 2–1 on aggregate. Here Basel were drawn against Tottenham Hotspur , whom they beat 4–1 on penalties after a 4–4 aggregate draw to progress to the semi-finals.  The draw for the semi-final matched them against reigning UEFA Champions League holders Chelsea . Both games in the tie ended with a defeat, 1-2 in Basel 1-3 in London. Despite these two defeats, Basel's European aims were achieved. In fact the season can be described as a very successful one, probably their most successful ever. , Basel's priority for the season was to win the league championship for the fifth time in a row. Their biggest signings at the beginning of the season were two players who had already played for the club before, Behrang Safari , who returned from RSC Anderlecht , and Matías Delgado who was signed on a free transfer from al-Jazira Club . Another main signing was Ivan Ivanov who transferred in from Partizan  to replace Aleksandar Dragović who transferred to Dynamo Kyiv .  , Basel's 2013–14 Swiss Super League season began on 13 July 2013 with the away tie against FC Aarau which was won 3–1.  They started in the 2013–14 Swiss Cup first round on 17 August with the away game against BSC Old Boys . Basel's 2013–14 UEFA Champions League season started on 30 July 2013 in the third qualifying round with the tie in St. Jakob-Park against Maccabi Tel Aviv , which they won 4-3 on aggregate. In the first match of the main group stage, Basel notched up a surprising 2-1 away win against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge and followed this up with a 1-0 home win in the return fixture at St. Jakob-Park . Despite these two results they only finished in third position in the league table and thus they qualified for the 2013–14 UEFA Europa League round of 32 .There, they fought Israeli team Maccabi Tel Aviv and went on to defeat RB Selzburg 2-1 on aggregate. They would face Valencia CF in the Round of 8, winning 3-0 at home, but losing 0-5 in Valencia after extra-time.  , On 28 May 2014 Basel announced that Paulo Sousa was to become their trainer for the new season and that he had signed a three-year contract.  His assistants were Ignacio Torreño, Victor Sanchez and Manuel Cordeiro (all three were brought in by Sousa). Basel's 2014–15 Swiss Super League season began on 19 July with the away tie against FC Aarau . They went on to win the league championship for the sixth time in a row. In the Swiss Cup , Basel started in the first round on 23 August with an away tie against CS Italien ( GE ). For the third season in a row, they ended as runners-up, losing 0-3 to FC Sion in the final. Basel entered the Champions League in the group stage . They reached the knockout phase on 9 December on a night in which Lazar Marković, a Liverpool FC player was controversially sent off.  BaseL then lost to Porto in the Round of 16 . , Paulo Sousa left the club prior to the 2015-16 season, to be replaced by FC Thun head coach Urs Fischer on 18 June. , FC Basel is known for having a big and loyal local following. When polls are conducted about the most passionate club football fans, FC Basel's fans usually make the top 200 if not top 100 in the world, resulting in what is by far the highest average attendance in Switzerland with around 30,000 fans  attending every home game and with the new extension being built that number is expected to rise to around 40,000. The fans have also made themselves a name in numerous international matches in recent years. , FCB's most internationally famous fan is tennis star Roger Federer . Federer is a Basel native and has supported the club since childhood and appears in attendance of many Basel matches. In one interview Federer said if he were not as good of a tennis player as he is today, he would have without a doubt tried to play football. He went on to say that if he had been successful in the beautiful game, he would have loved to play for FC Basel.  , In November 2010 their supporters caused the game against FC Luzern to be stopped after they threw hundreds of tennis balls onto the pitch. This was in protest at the kick off times being moved to accommodate a tennis tournament on the TV schedule.  , The city of Basel and the city of Zürich have a long-standing rivalry. Therefore, FC Basel's most traditional and fiercest rivals are Grasshopper Club Zürich and FC Zürich . In the past few seasons, the rivalry between FC Zürich and Basel and has been fueled by FC Zürich's league championship wins, which were won very narrowly over Basel. Supporters from both sides have caused trouble in the past years. The worst incident happened in May 2006. FC Basel had won the league in the 2003/04 and 2004/05 seasons and were set to make it three in a row if they won or drew against Zürich at home on the last day of the 2005/06 season. But if Zürich won, they would get the title. Zürich took the lead after a late goal from Iulian Filipescu and consequently won the match and the league. After the final whistle, players and fans from both teams started fighting on the pitch and in the stands. This incident has fueled hatred and bitterness between fans from FC Zürich and FC Basel. There is a controversy about which rivalry is bigger, the one with Grasshopper or FC Zürich . But it usually depends on the success of these teams. Thus there is a peculiar situation in Switzerland between the three clubs that the more successful team on the football pitch at a certain time period is usually considered the bigger rival as well. For the past few years the success of both FC Basel and FC Zürich means their rivalry is considered the most fierce. , FC Basel is known throughout Switzerland for having a good youth system. [ citation needed ] It has produced Swiss internationals such as Erni Maissen , Adrian Knup , Alexander Frei , Marco Streller , Philipp and David Degen . Since FC Basel moved into the St. Jakobs Park in 2001 they have strengthened their youth academy and many young talents like the Felipe Caicedo , Ivan Rakitić , Zdravko Kuzmanović , Xherdan Shaqiri and Yann Sommer along with Eren Derdiyok have risen through the ranks there. Since 2001 more than 40 successful players have risen through the Basel youth system and joined their first team, for example: , FC Basel play their home games at the 37,500 capacity St. Jakob-Park (which translates into English as St. Jacob's Park).  , UEFA have awarded the stadium a 4-star rating, the highest rating that could be given to a stadium of that capacity. St. Jakob-Park was opened in 2001, originally holding a maximum attendance of 33,433. The stadium was expanded with a new stand (sector G) and upgraded to 42,500 due to Switzerland being co-hosts of UEFA Euro 2008 . After the Euro 2008 a number of seats were removed, thus giving more space between them, and the capacity was reduced 37,500 seats.  The stadium is nicknamed "Joggeli" by the fans and has 2 restaurants called "Restaurant UNO" and "Hattrick's Sports Bar" and a shopping centre which opened on 1 November 2001. It also has parking space for 680 cars and has its own train station. St. Jakob-Park hosted 6 games during EURO 2008, including the opening game between Switzerland and Czech Republic and a semi-final between Germany and Turkey . The most interesting feature of the stadium is the translucent outer layer, which can be illuminated in different colours for impressive effects, this effect was copied three years later for the new Bayern Munich stadium, the Allianz Arena . , Before the St. Jakob-Park stadium was built FC Basel played home games in the Landhof (in the Quarter Kleinbasel) and, following the 1954 World Cup, in the newly built St. Jakob Stadium which was on the same site as the current stadium. During the construction period of the St. Jacob-Park the FC Basel home games were played in Stadion Schützenmatte . , FC Basel's traditional kit is a red and blue shirt. Due to the fact that some of the founders were members of the "Basler Ruder-Club", whose colors were red and blue, they adopted those colours for their new club. FC Basel's outfit is completed by blue shorts with gold trim and blue socks with red trim. From this comes the nickname " RotBlau " which is Swiss German and German for "RedBlue". Their away kit is all white with two stripes down the middle, the left being red and the right being blue. FC Basel's kits were formerly manufactured by Nike , however in the summer of 2012 a new contract was formed with Adidas to produce the kits until 2017. The main sponsor is Novartis , a multinational pharmaceutical company which is based in the city of Basel . On the inside tag of the jerseys is inscribed "Rot isch unseri Liebi, Blau die ewigi Treui, Basel unseri Stadt." This roughly translates to "Red is our love, blue the eternal loyalty, Basel our city." , The famous " Blaugrana " colours of FC Barcelona are said to have originated from the "Rotblau" colours of FC Basel. FC Barcelona was founded by former FC Basel captain Joan Gamper . For the 2008/09 season, Basel changed their shirt to resemble the traditional Barcelona shirt (red and blue vertical stripes). Barcelona changed theirs to one half of the shirt red, the other blue, which happens to resemble the traditional FC Basel shirt. , FC Basel's current logo is a shield, the left half red and the right half blue. The shield is outlined with gold and in the centre in gold letters it says FCB which stands for "Football Club Basel" or "Fussballclub Basel". The logo is worn in the centre of the shirt opposed to on the traditional left-hand side. Like the colours of FC Basel, the logo has a striking resemblance to that of FC Barcelona in Spain. There are theories that suggest that the founder of FC Barcelona, being at one time the captain of FC Basel, reincorporated the logo of FC Basel on to that of FC Barcelona. The resemblances seem clear, both logos seem to incorporate the shield design, as do most other clubs. But most notably is the FCB acronyms on both logos and the Red-Blue colours, outlined in gold. Also the football that lies on the left side of the FC Basel logo seems to be the exact shape, type and colour as that of the FC Barcelona Logo in the bottom centre. Because of this, many people tend to say that FC Basel was the inspiration in the process of founding FC Barcelona in Spain. , Companies that FC Basel currently has sponsorship deals with include: , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , , Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , There is no official Basel U-19 team, because a U-19 championship does not exist in Swiss football . The team was quickly put together in the 2011-12 season from the youngest members of the first team, the younger Under-21 and the Under-18 teams who were eligible to play in the 2011-12 NextGen series . Note: Results and dates can be found here 2011–12 NextGen series . , Because Basel qualified for the 2013–14 UEFA Champions League the Under-19 team was again called to life and played in the 2013–14 UEFA Youth League . This time the members of this squad were solely members from the U-21 and U-18 teams, but the team only trained together once a week. Note: Results and dates can be found here 2013–14 UEFA Youth League . , A year later Basel qualified for the 2014–15 UEFA Champions League . Again Basel were eligible to play in the 2014–15 UEFA Youth League and they took the matter a lot more seriously than the year before. Reserve team manager Thomas Häberli was also appointed as U-19 coach. Häberli's U-19 squad was still a mix between the younger U-21 and the older U-18 teams, but the team had training together virtually daily. This resulted with improved results, the team winning four games from their six. Note: Results and dates can be found here 2014–15 UEFA Youth League . , The club also have 12 further youth teams: Under-18, Under-17 (Team Basel/Jura), Under-16, Under-15, Under-14, Under-13 (Footeco), Under-12 (Junioren D9 Promotion), Under-11 (Junioren Ea), Under-10(Junioren Eb), Under-9(Junioren F), Under-8(Junioren F) and Bebbi (Under-7).  , The following players are listed by Basel's website as Ladies Team  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules . Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. , , A few former players and former coaches are considered by the fans to be memorable. This because of their long and outstanding contributions towards the club, to some degree even decades after the end of their careers. Therefore have a very special status with the fans. The following are a few examples: , NOTE : Early history is largely unknown. , In January 2012, at the clubs annual general meeting Gisela Oeri was nominated honorary president.  , FC Basel has a team in the Superleague Formula race car series where football teams lend their name to cars. GU-Racing International has operated the car for all seasons and Max Wissel has drove the car in all the races. FC Basel and Wissel have won 1 race, in the 2009 season at Donington Park . The team have scored 3 other podiums in the series.    In progress , The 2015 Formula One season is the 66th season of the Formula One World Championship , a motor racing championship for Formula One cars which is recognised by the sport's governing body, the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars. Twenty-one drivers representing ten teams are contesting each of nineteen scheduled Grands Prix ,  starting in Australia on 15 March and ending in Abu Dhabi on 29 November as they compete for the World Drivers' and World Constructors' championships. , Lewis Hamilton is the defending Drivers' Champion after securing his second title at the 2014 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix .  His team, Mercedes , began the season as the defending Constructors' Champion, having secured its first championship title at the 2014 Russian Grand Prix .  , After eight races, Hamilton leads the Drivers' Championship standings by 10 points from team-mate Nico Rosberg , with Ferrari 's Sebastian Vettel in third. Mercedes leads the Constructors' standings ahead of Ferrari and Williams . , , , The following teams and drivers are signed to take part in the 2015 Formula One World Championship.   , The following nineteen Grands Prix are scheduled to take place in 2015.  , Before the start of the season, Hamilton announced he would not be exercising his option of switching his car number to 1 for 2015, as was his prerogative as reigning World Champion, and would instead race with his career number 44. It was the first season since 1994 , when Alain Prost retired from the sport following his fourth and final World Drivers' Championship title in 1993 , that the field did not contain a number 1 car.  , Following the financial struggles faced by Marussia and Caterham in 2014, the FIA approved the use of 2014-specification chassis in 2015 provided that teams showed cause and received an individual dispensation to compete with their old chassis.  However, a request by Manor Marussia to use their 2014 car was later rejected by the other teams.   Subsequent regulation changes allowed the team to use a modified 2014 chassis which met updated safety and dimensional limits. The car is powered by a 2014 specification Ferrari power unit, with a new chassis to be introduced later in the season.  , Sauber's early season preparations were disrupted by a series of legal challenges from former Caterham driver Giedo van der Garde , who claimed that the team had reneged on a contract to race that was signed in June 2014.  Van der Garde filed a motion with the Supreme Court of Victoria in Australia in an effort to force the team to replace one of their drivers with him at the opening round in Melbourne,  with the court finding in his favour.  Van der Garde later agreed to not participate in the event, with the driver and team settling the dispute for an undisclosed sum to terminate the contract following the first round.  , McLaren's Fernando Alonso was involved in a pre-season testing accident that saw the two-time World Drivers' Champion hospitalised. McLaren claimed the crash was caused by a sudden gust of wind disrupting the car's downforce, while Alonso insisted the crash was caused by his steering wheel locking up.  On doctor's advice, Alonso elected to sit out the opening round in Australia, prompting the team to replace him with Kevin Magnussen for the race.   Alonso was ultimately cleared to race by the second round in Malaysia .  , Mercedes hit the ground running with a 1–2 finish in Australia, resulting in a twenty-eight point lead after just one round, finishing over 30 seconds clear of third place driver Sebastian Vettel, who secured a podium in his first race with Ferrari. Red Bull's Daniel Ricciardo finished a lap down in sixth,  prompting the team to continue to press their frustrations with Renault, as they were forced to use its second of four allotted power units for Ricciardo on the very first day of the season.  The team also voiced its displeasure over the progress Renault has made in terms of power, with team principal Christian Horner stating that the Energy F1-2015 is still 100 horsepower (75 kW) down on Mercedes's PU106B Hybrid.  After the race, Red Bull team advisor Helmut Marko suggested that Red Bull may exit Formula One entirely if changes to the regulations are not made to level the field or cut development costs.  Renault countered with their own threat to pull out of Formula One as an engine supplier if its reputation continues to be damaged or is otherwise not profitable to the company.  Mercedes followed up by finishing second and third in Malaysia, while Red Bull continued to struggle, rounding out the top ten a lap down. By the end of the flyaway rounds, Mercedes led the field, having earned 159 points (with Lewis Hamilton acquiring 93 out of 100 possible points), while Red Bull's struggles endured. The team acquired 26 points, enough for a distant fourth, and Ricciardo entered the European stages of the season on his fourth and final permissible power unit with fifteen events remaining on the calendar. , With McLaren's longest continuous testing session lasting twelve laps in Barcelona —a total of 56 kilometres (35 mi), a sixth of a total Grand Prix distance—before running into engine trouble, Honda elected to detune the power units for the opening Grands Prix in an effort to improve reliability and longevity while the manufacturer worked to improve these areas before homologation .  Both cars qualified on the back row, and in the race Kevin Magnussen failed to reach the grid after suffering an abrupt engine failure, while Jenson Button managed to finish the race, albeit two laps behind the leaders in the last classified position.  Magnussen reliquished his seat back to Alonso in Malaysia, however both cars qualified ahead of only the Manor Marussias and eventually retired. The team showed signs of improvement in terms of performance, able to compete with the midfield cars in China and Bahrain , although reliability continued to prove troublesome as Button's car was unable to compete in the latter Grand Prix. , Following a tumultuous pre-season in which they went through a period of administration and were saved by late investment, Manor Marussia arrived in Melbourne with a car that had passed its mandatory crash tests, but had completed no testing.  However, it was discovered that after arrival in Australia and while assembling the cars, their computers had been wiped completely clean of all data in preparation for auction.  Despite the team's efforts, they were unable to solve the oversight and could not participate in the Grand Prix.  The team managed to get the car running and on the racetrack by the second round in Malaysia and were able to set times within 107% of the leading times in practice, giving stewards reasonable grounds to allow the team to race when they failed to do so in qualifying. Merhi was able to finish the race three laps down in 15th, while Stevens did not start. Manor Marussia continued to show signs of consistency, with both cars qualifying within 107%, starting, and finishing both Grands Prix in China and Bahrain. They are one of two teams, the other being McLaren, to return to Europe without a championship point. , Ferrari came into the season seemingly much more competitive, finishing on the podium in the opening race. Returning driver Kimi Räikkönen stated that the SF15-T is "much better" to drive than last year's F14 T .  With Vettel winning comfortably and Räikkönen finishing in fourth despite suffering a tyre failure in Malaysia, Ferrari began to show that they would stand out as "best of the rest" among the other nine teams. They followed this up with a 3–4 finish in China and Räikkönen securing his first podium appearance in Bahrain since rejoining Ferrari the previous season. With 107 points, the team returns to Europe fifty-two points behind Mercedes, and forty-six points ahead of third place Williams. , Mercedes arrived at Spain already with a comfortable lead, having amassed a fifty-two point cushion over Ferrari after the first four races. Lewis Hamilton entered having left only 7 points out of a possible 100 on the table, giving him a twenty-seven point lead over teammate Nico Rosberg entering the eight-race European portion of the season. , Rosberg quickly cut into Hamilton's Championship lead by securing victories in Spain (reducing his deficit to twenty points) and Monaco . The latter win was aided by the result of a costly miscalculation by the Mercedes team to pit Hamilton with a 19-second lead during a safety car period (that briefly saw the use of the "Virtual Safety Car" for the first time in F1's history) with 14 laps remaining. Rosberg and Sebastian Vettel did not pit, allowing both to narrowly pass Hamilton by the pit exit lane. Racing resumed on lap 71 and Rosberg quickly pulled away, remaining in the lead till the chequered flag. Vettel held off Hamilton for second and third, respectively. As a result, Hamilton's lead over Rosberg in the Drivers' Championship was cut in half, to just ten points. Meanwhile, Button secured McLaren's first points of the season by finishing 8th. This leaves the Manor drivers of Stevens and Merhi, along with fellow McLaren driver Fernando Alonso, as the only full-time drivers not to score a point after seven rounds. , At the following Grand Prix in Canada , Mercedes quickly put to rest the criticism following the result in Monaco  with another 1—2 finish led by Hamilton, extending his lead over Rosberg to seventeen points. Williams collected their first podium of the season in the form of a third place result by Valteri Bottas , while the Ferraris of Räikkönen and Vettel rounded out the top five despite a spin by Räikkönen and Vettel starting from 18th on the grid and overcoming a slow pit stop. Other power unit manufacturers continued to show their struggles, with Daniil Kvyat's Red Bull the sole Renault in the top ten indicating their continued lack of power, while both McLarens again retired due to exhaust issues with their Honda units, highlighting their lack of reliability. , In Austria , Rosberg captured his third victory in four races ahead of Hamilton, again cutting Hamilton's championship lead to ten points. Williams took advantage of Ferrari mistakes by claiming their second podium in a row, with third place going to Felipe Massa and a fifth place finish by Bottas. While both Ferraris showed pace that kept up with Mercedes in practice sessions, the team could not translate it to qualifying. A communication error  saw Räikkönen qualify in 18th ahead of only the Manor Marussias and violently crash with Alonso's McLaren on the opening lap. Mercedes's lead in the Constructor's championship over Ferrari grew from 105 points to 136, while Ferrari's lead over Williams dropped from 76 to 63 points. Force India climbed into the top five in the Constructor's standings for the first time of the season, courtesy of a double points finish from Sergio Pérez and Nico Hülkenberg , who finished a season-best 6th after winning the 24 Hours of Le Mans one week prior. , Points are awarded to the top ten classified finishers using the following structure: , In the event of a tie, a count-back system is used as a tie-breaker, with a driver's best result used to decide the standings. [ N 1 ] , Notes: , , Notes: ,  Lewis Carl Davidson Hamilton ,  MBE (born 7 January 1985) is a British Formula One racing driver from England, currently racing for the Mercedes AMG team. He is the 2008 and 2014 Formula One World Champion . , Hamilton was born in Stevenage , Hertfordshire.  In December 1995, at the age of ten, he approached McLaren team principal Ron Dennis at the Autosport Awards ceremony and told him, "I want to race for you one day ... I want to race for McLaren." Less than three years later McLaren and Mercedes-Benz signed him to their Young Driver Support Programme.  After winning the British Formula Renault , Formula Three Euroseries , and GP2 championships on his way up the racing career ladder,  he drove for McLaren in 2007, making his Formula One debut 12 years after his initial encounter with Dennis. Hamilton's contract for the McLaren driver development program made him the youngest ever driver to secure a contract which later resulted in a Formula One drive.  , Coming from a mixed background, with a black father and white mother,   Hamilton is often labelled "the first black driver in Formula One",      although Willy T. Ribbs tested a Formula One car in 1986.  He is also the first driver of black African heritage to win a major race at Indianapolis Motor Speedway in any discipline. , In his first season in Formula One, Hamilton set numerous records, while finishing second in the 2007 Formula One Championship , just one point behind Kimi Räikkönen . He won the World Championship the following season ,  becoming the then-youngest Formula One world champion in history.  Sebastian Vettel broke that record two years later. Following his second world title in 2014 he was named the BBC Sports Personality of the Year . He is the only driver on the current grid to have won at least one race in each season he has competed in to date, with McLaren from 2007 until 2012, and with Mercedes since 2013. He has more race victories than any other British driver in the history of Formula One and is currently 5th on the all-time list, with 37 wins. , Hamilton was born on 7 January 1985 in Stevenage , Hertfordshire, England.  Although widely reported as being named after American sprinter Carl Lewis , Hamilton states that this is not the case.  Hamilton's mother, Carmen Larbalestier, is white British , while his father, Anthony Hamilton, is black British , making him mixed-race ,  (Anthony Hamilton's parents emigrated from Grenada to the United Kingdom in the 1950s).   Lewis Hamilton's parents separated when he was two, as a result of this he lived with his mother and half-sisters Nicola and Samantha  until he was twelve, when he started living with his father, stepmother Linda and half-brother Nicolas , who has cerebral palsy .  In early 2011, Nicolas signed with Total Control Racing to start a racing career in the 2011 Renault Clio Cup .  Hamilton was raised a Roman Catholic.  , Hamilton's father bought him a radio-controlled car in 1991, which gave him his first taste of racing competition. Hamilton finished second in the national BRCA championship the following year. He said of the time: "I was racing these remote-controlled cars and winning club championships against adults".  As a result of this his father bought him his first go-kart as a Christmas present at the age of six.  His father told him that he would support his racing career as long as he worked hard at school. Supporting his son became problematic, which caused him to take redundancy from his position as an IT Manager and become a contractor. He was sometimes employed in up to three jobs at a time, while still managing to find enough time to attend all Hamilton's races. He later set up his own computer company as well as working as a full-time manager for Hamilton.  Hamilton ended his working relationship with his father in early 2010 and subsequently signed a management deal in March 2011 with Simon Fuller 's firm XIX Entertainment .  In November 2014 Hamilton announced that he would not be renewing his management contract with Fuller.  , Hamilton was educated at The John Henry Newman School , a voluntary aided Catholic secondary school in Stevenage, Hertfordshire.  Alongside his interest for racing, he played association football for his school team with England international midfielder Ashley Young .  Hamilton said that if Formula One had not worked for him he would have been a footballer, being a big fan of Arsenal F.C.  or a cricketer, having played both for his school teams as a youngster. He subsequently attended, in February 2001, Cambridge Arts and Sciences (CATS), a private sixth-form college in Cambridge.  At the age of five Hamilton took up karate in order to defend himself as a result of bullying at school.  At around 12, he learned to ride a unicycle , as part of his karting rivalry with future F1 Mercedes teammate, Nico Rosberg , who could already ride one.  , Hamilton began karting in 1993 at the age of eight,  at the Rye House Kart Circuit  and quickly began winning races and Cadet class championships. At the age of ten he approached McLaren F1 team boss Ron Dennis for an autograph, and told him, "Hi. I'm Lewis Hamilton. I won the British Championship and one day I want to be racing your cars." Dennis wrote in his autograph book, "Phone me in nine years, we'll sort something out then." Hamilton drove for Martin Hines' Zip Young Guns Karting Team.  From the Cadet ranks, he progressed through to Junior Yamaha (1997) and Ron Dennis actually called him in 1998 after Hamilton won an additional Super One series and his second British championship.  Dennis delivered on his promise and signed Hamilton to the McLaren driver development program. This contract included an option of a future F1 seat, which would eventually make Hamilton the youngest ever driver to secure a contract which later resulted in an F1 drive.  , "He's a quality driver, very strong and only 16. If he keeps this up I'm sure he will reach F1. It's something special to see a kid of his age out on the circuit. He's clearly got the right racing mentality." , Hamilton continued his progress in the Intercontinental A (1999), Formula A (2000) and Formula Super A (2001) ranks, and became European Champion in 2000 with maximum points. In Formula A and Formula Super A, racing for TeamMBM.com, his team mate was Nico Rosberg who would later drive for the Williams and Mercedes teams in Formula One; they would later team up again for Mercedes in 2013. Following his karting successes the British Racing Drivers' Club made him a "Rising Star" Member in 2000.  , In 2001, Michael Schumacher made a one-off return to karts and competed against Hamilton along with other future F1 drivers Vitantonio Liuzzi and Nico Rosberg. Hamilton ended the final in seventh, four places behind Schumacher. Although the two saw little of each other on the track Schumacher praised the young Briton (see quote box).  , Hamilton began his car racing career in the 2001 British Formula Renault Winter Series. Despite crashing on his third lap in the car in testing, he finished fifth overall in the winter series.  This led to a full 2002 Formula Renault UK campaign with Manor Motorsport. Hamilton finished third overall with three wins and three pole positions. He remained with Manor for another year and won the championship with ten wins and 419 points to the two wins and 377 points of his nearest rival, Alex Lloyd . Having clinched the championship, Hamilton missed the last two races of the season to make his debut in the season finale of the British Formula Three Championship . Here he was less successful: in the first race he was forced out with a puncture,  and in the second he crashed out and was taken to hospital after a collision with his team-mate Tor Graves .  He did show his speed at both the Macau Grand Prix and Korea Super Prix , in the latter he qualified on pole position in his first visit to the track and in only his fourth F3 race. Asked in 2002 about the prospect of becoming one of the youngest ever Formula One drivers, Hamilton replied that his goal was "not to be the youngest in F1 ...[but] to be experienced and then show what I can do in F1".  , Later in 2004 Williams would announce that they had come close to signing him but were refused the opportunity due to BMW , their engine supplier at the time, refusing to fund Hamilton's career.  Hamilton eventually re-signed with McLaren, and made his debut with Manor in the 2004 Formula 3 Euro Series . They won one race and Hamilton ended the year fifth in the championship. He also won the Bahrain F3 Superprix and raced one of the Macau F3 Grand Prix . Hamilton first tested for McLaren in late 2004 at Silverstone .  , Hamilton moved to the reigning Euro Series champions ASM for the 2005 season and dominated the championship, winning 15 of the 20 rounds. This would have been 16 but for being disqualified from one win at Spa-Francorchamps on a technical infringement that caught out several other drivers.  He also won the Marlboro Masters of Formula 3 at Zandvoort .  After the season British magazine Autosport featured him in their "Top 50 Drivers of 2005" issue, ranking Hamilton 24th.  , Due to his success in Formula Three, he moved to ASM's sister GP2 team ART Grand Prix for 2006 .  Just like their sister team in F3, ART were the leaders of the field and reigning champions having taken the 2005 GP2 crown with Nico Rosberg .  Hamilton won the GP2 championship at his first attempt, beating Nelson Piquet, Jr. and Timo Glock . , His performances included a dominant win at the Nürburgring , despite serving a penalty for speeding in the pit lane . At his home race at Silverstone , supporting the British Grand Prix , Hamilton overtook two rivals at Becketts, a series of high-speed (up to 150 mph in a GP2 car) bends where overtaking is rare. In Istanbul he recovered from a spin that left him in eighteenth place to take second position in the final corners. He won the title in unusual circumstances, inheriting the final point he needed after Giorgio Pantano was stripped of fastest lap in the Monza feature race. In the sprint race, though he finished second with Piquet sixth, he finished twelve points clear of his rival.  , His 2006 GP2 championship coincided with a vacancy at McLaren following the departure of Juan Pablo Montoya to NASCAR and Kimi Räikkönen to Ferrari .   After months of speculation on whether Hamilton, Pedro de la Rosa or Gary Paffett would be paired with defending champion Fernando Alonso for 2007 , Hamilton was confirmed as the team's second driver.  He was told of McLaren's decision on 30 September, but the news was not made public until 24 November, for fear that it would be overshadowed by Michael Schumacher 's retirement announcement.  , It was announced prior to the start of the season that Hamilton would be partnering defending double World Champion Fernando Alonso who had joined McLaren after leaving Renault . On his debut at the Australian Grand Prix , he finished third in the race, becoming the thirteenth driver to finish on the podium in his first F1 career race (excluding those in the first ever World Championship round).  In Bahrain and Barcelona, Hamilton finished second behind Felipe Massa to take the lead in the drivers championship.  This meant that Hamilton broke Bruce McLaren 's record of being the youngest driver to ever lead the world championship.  , Hamilton finished second behind Alonso at Monaco and afterwards he suggested he was prevented from racing his team mate. The FIA cleared McLaren following an investigation. Hamilton had both his first pole position and first victory of his F1 career in the Canadian Grand Prix in Montreal .  A week later Hamilton won the United States Grand Prix , becoming the first Briton since John Watson in 1983 to win an F1 race in the US,  and only the second person, after Jacques Villeneuve , to win more than one race in his rookie Formula One season since the first year of the Championship. , By finishing third at Magny-Cours behind Ferrari drivers Kimi Räikkönen and Felipe Massa, Hamilton extended his lead in the Driver's Championship to 14 points.  In Hamilton's first home Grand Prix at Silverstone he finished third.  Having secured this podium finish meant he equalled Jim Clark's 1963 record of 9 consecutive podium finishes for a British driver. , During qualifying for the European Grand Prix , Hamilton crashed at the Schumacher chicane after a problem with the wheel nut caused by the wheel gun used on his car. He was taken to the circuit's medical centre on a stretcher with an oxygen mask and drip, but was conscious throughout.  He was unable to complete qualifying and his existing laptime was surpassed by all other competitors during Q3, thus he qualified in tenth position.  After a final medical check on Sunday morning, Hamilton was cleared to race.  During a heavy rainstorm which caused the race to be red-flagged Hamilton slid off into a gravel trap, however as he kept his engine running he was lifted back on to the circuit and able to rejoin the race after the restart. His ninth-place finish in this race was his first non-podium and non-points finish.  Controversially, Hamilton became the first and only driver to have his car recovered by a crane and put back on the track during a Formula One race. This led some to the conclusion Hamilton was getting preferential treatment by the FIA as all other drivers who went off into the gravel were not craned back onto the track.  The FIA subsequently banned the use of mechanical assistance to move a car back on track afterwards.  , Hamilton won the Hungarian Grand Prix from pole position following a controversial qualifying session. Alonso had set the fastest time, but was relegated five places down the grid to sixth for preventing Hamilton from leaving the pit lane in time to complete his final qualifying lap.  After the race Hamilton declared that he had restored his relationship with Alonso.  At the Turkish Grand Prix Hamilton suffered a puncture which saw him finish in fifth place.  , Alonso beat Hamilton in the Italian and Belgian Grands Prix, leaving Hamilton with a two-point lead in the title race. However he extended his lead to 12 points after winning the Japanese Grand Prix in heavy rain after Alonso crashed. Following the race Hamilton was investigated by the race stewards over his involvement in an incident behind the safety car, which saw both Sebastian Vettel and Mark Webber crash out of the race while following him. The trio were cleared on the Friday of the Chinese Grand Prix weekend.  , After securing pole position in China , changeable conditions were present during the race. McLaren left Hamilton out for too long on worn tyres, despite advice from Bridgestone , who became stuck in a gravel trap as he came into the pit lane. Hamilton thus went into the final race of the season four and seven points ahead of Alonso and Räikkönen respectively.  , In the Brazilian Grand Prix Hamilton failed to finish in a championship-winning position, finishing the race in seventh place. On the first lap Hamilton was passed by several cars and found himself in eighth place. On the ninth lap of the race Hamilton could not select a gear and ending up coasting for 40 seconds. Hamilton recovered to seventh place though enough to win the title before Ferrari switched their two drivers allowing the championship to go to Raikkonen.    Hamilton took the record of Youngest World Drivers' Championship runner-up, at 22 years and 288 days, previously held by Kimi Räikkönen at 23 years and 360 days. In 2009, this record was taken by Sebastian Vettel , who was 22 years and 122 days when he secured runner-up position in the championship. , On 21 October 2007 it was announced that the FIA were investigating BMW Sauber and Williams for fuel irregularities, the BMW drivers had finished in fifth and sixth place, and if they were to be excluded Hamilton would be promoted to fifth and would win the 2007 Drivers World Championship by one point over Räikkönen. Ultimately no penalty whatsoever was given to any team as there was "sufficient doubt as to render it inappropriate to impose a penalty", though McLaren officially appealed this decision.  Hamilton subsequently told the BBC he did not want to win an F1 title through the disqualifications of other drivers.  , Hamilton's relationship with McLaren team boss Ron Dennis dates back to 1995,  with the first indication that Hamilton was unhappy with his team appearing after he finished second at Monaco in 2007. After post-race comments made by Hamilton which suggested he had been forced into a supporting role, the FIA initiated an inquiry to determine whether McLaren had broken rules by enforcing team orders.  McLaren denied favouring double world champion Fernando Alonso , and the FIA subsequently vindicated the team, stating that: "McLaren were able to pursue an optimum team strategy because they had a substantial advantage over all other cars. They did nothing which could be described as interfering with the race result".  , The tensions within the team surfaced again at the 2007 Hungarian Grand Prix . During the final qualifying session for the race Hamilton was delayed in the pits by Alonso and thus unable to set a final lap time before the end of the session. McLaren pointed out that Hamilton had disobeyed an earlier instruction to let Alonso pass in qualifying, for fear of losing his own position.  Alonso was relegated to sixth place on the starting grid, thus elevating Hamilton (who had originally qualified second) to first, while McLaren were docked constructors championship points. Hamilton said he thought Alonso's penalty was "quite light if anything" and only regretted the loss of constructors' points.  Hamilton was reported to have sworn at Dennis on the team radio following the incident.   British motorsport journal Autosport claimed that this "[led] Dennis to throw his headphones on the pit wall in disgust (a gesture that was misinterpreted by many to be in reaction to Alonso's pole)".  However McLaren later issued a statement on behalf of Hamilton which denied the use of any profanity.  As a result of these events, the relationship between Hamilton and Alonso temporarily collapsed, with the pair not on speaking terms for a short period.   In the aftermath it was reported that Hamilton had been targeted by Luca di Montezemolo regarding a Ferrari drive for 2008 .  , Following the stewards' investigation into the incident at the 2007 Japanese Grand Prix , Alonso stated: "I'm not thinking of this championship any more, it's been decided off the track. The drivers' briefing has no purpose. You go there to hear what Charlie Whiting and the other officials say. Twenty one drivers have an opinion, Charlie and the officials another, and so it's like talking to a wall".  , The rivalry between Hamilton and teammate Alonso led to speculation that one of the pair would leave McLaren at the end of the 2007 season    and Alonso and McLaren subsequently terminated their contract by mutual consent on 2 November 2007.  , On 14 December 2007, it was confirmed that Heikki Kovalainen who drove for Renault in 2007 would drive the second car for McLaren-Mercedes for the 2008 Formula One season alongside Hamilton.  In January 2008, Hamilton signed a new five-year multi-million pound contract to stay with McLaren-Mercedes until the end of the 2012 season.  , Hamilton won the first race of the 2008 season, the Australian Grand Prix , having qualified on pole position.  In Malaysia , he finished fifth after he had started from ninth on the grid, serving a penalty for impeding Nick Heidfeld 's qualifying lap.   He was back on the podium in Spain finishing third.  Hamilton finished second in Turkey ,  and won the Monaco Grand Prix , putting him in the lead of the championship.  In Montreal Hamilton crashed into the back of Räikkönen during the race, after failing to see that the Finn was waiting at a red light at the end of the pit lane as the whole field went past under the guide of the safety car. Both cars were forced to retire and Hamilton was given a 10 position grid penalty for the next race, the French Grand Prix .   Despite an error in qualifying that saw him start fourth on the grid, Hamilton went on to win the British Grand Prix in difficult, wet conditions. His performance was stated as being one of his best drives to date.  Hamilton himself said in the post race press conference that it was his most difficult and most meaningful win.  In the next race at Hockenheim , Hamilton won the race despite a tactical blunder by the team.  , Hamilton won the Belgian Grand Prix , however he was later judged to have gained an unfair advantage by cutting a chicane when he used a tarmac run off area to avoid hitting Kimi Räikkönen .  McLaren said that their telemetry showed Hamilton backed off to let Räikkönen past  but Hamilton was given a 25-second penalty, thereby dropping him to third. As a result his main title rival Massa inherited the win. Hamilton's lead in the drivers' championship was cut to two points, and a subsequent appeal by McLaren to the FIA World Motor Sport Council was rejected on the grounds that the case was inadmissible.  , The Italian Grand Prix saw Hamilton finish in seventh place. This result cut Hamilton's lead in the Championship to one point.  Hamilton finished third at the next race in Singapore , while Massa failed to score any points, allowing Hamilton to increase his championship lead to seven points.  At Fuji , Hamilton was given a drive-through penalty for forcing other cars off the track when he made an error on the first lap. Before he could serve the penalty Hamilton attempted to pass Massa who hit him after the Ferraris driver made a mistake. Massa was later given a drive-through penalty for this move. Hamilton could only finish in 12th position, however Massa finished seventh after being given an extra point after a penalty was given to Toro Rosso's Sébastien Bourdais .  This meant that with just two races to go Hamilton led the World Championship by five points from Massa. At the Chinese Grand Prix , Hamilton won the race from Felipe Massa and Kimi Räikkönen, taking a 7-point lead in the World Championship into the last race of the season. Speaking afterwards, Hamilton said "All weekend we have had God on our side as always, and the team did a phenomenal job in preparing the car, which has been a dream to drive."  , At the Brazilian Grand Prix Hamilton needed to finish at least in fifth position if Massa won the race to secure the World Championship. In mixed conditions Hamilton became the youngest Formula One World Champion as he snatched the championship on the very last corner. Just before the race began a rain shower hit and Hamilton ran in fourth place before dropping down to sixth to put on dry weather tyres. Hamilton moved back to fourth place after passing Fisichella and overtaking the three stopping Vettel. Hamilton held Vettel off and after they pitted for wet weather tyres as another shower he was fifth. But with two laps to go Vettel overtook Hamilton and the Brit could not get back past, but on the final lap he and Vettel made up an eighteen-second gap on Glock who had stayed out on dry tyres and Hamilton overtook him for fifth place and the championship by one point in the very last corner as Massa won the race.   This meant that Hamilton had clinched the 2008 Formula One World Championship, becoming the youngest driver to win the title, as well as the first black driver.  He is also the first British driver to win the World Championship since Damon Hill triumphed in 1996.  , On 4 February 2008, Hamilton was verbally heckled and otherwise abused during pre-season testing at the Circuit de Catalunya in Catalonia by several Spanish spectators who wore black face paint and black wigs, as well as shirts bearing the words "Hamilton's familly [ sic ]".  Hamilton became widely unpopular in Spain because of his rivalry with Spanish former team-mate Fernando Alonso . The FIA have warned Spanish authorities about the repetition of such behaviour.  In reaction to this behaviour, the FIA announced on 13 February 2008 that it will launch a "Race Against Racism" campaign.  , Shortly before the 2008 Brazilian Grand Prix, a website owned by the Spanish branch of the New York-based advertising agency TBWA and named "pinchalaruedadeHamilton" (burst Hamilton's tyre) was featured in the British media. The website contained an animated image of Interlagos that allowed users to leave nails and porcupines on the track for Hamilton's car to run over. Among thousands of comments left since 2007, some included racial insults .  His rival Fernando Alonso condemned the racist supporters.  , Hamilton started the 2009 season-opening Australian Grand Prix from 18th place on the grid after the McLaren team incurred a penalty for changing his gearbox during qualifying.  Hamilton benefited from a late crash between Red Bull's Sebastian Vettel and BMW Sauber's Robert Kubica to move into fourth place by the end of the race. He was then promoted to third after Jarno Trulli was penalised for overtaking him under safety-car conditions. During a post-race stewards' hearing, Hamilton and McLaren officials told stewards they had not purposely let Trulli pass, but it was revealed by release of the McLaren race radio communication that this was not true.  Hamilton was then disqualified from the race for providing "misleading evidence" during the stewards' hearing.  He later privately apologised to FIA race director Charlie Whiting for having lied to the stewards.  He went on to describe the incident as the hardest week of his life, and considered quitting Formula One .  , Hamilton scored minor points at the Malaysian , Chinese and Bahrain Grands Prix . Hamilton's fortunes were reversed at the Hungaroring , the tenth round of the season where he won the race, 11.529 seconds clear of Räikkönen to take his 10th career win and the first for a KERS-equipped car.  McLaren's return to form continued in Valencia , where Hamilton finished second.  In Singapore Grand Prix , Hamilton took his second win of the season.  He finished third at the Japanese and Brazilian Grands Prix . In the inaugural Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , Hamilton led the race, but retired on lap 20 due to a rear brake problem, his first technical-related retirement in Formula One. [ citation needed ] , For the new season Hamilton would drive alongside Jenson Button , after Heikki Kovalainen moved to Lotus Racing .  , Hamilton finished third in Bahrain ,  In Australia , Hamilton ended the race in sixth place, after a late-race collision with Mark Webber .  In Malaysia a misjudgement on the weather by his team in qualifying, left him on tyres that were unfavourable for the wet conditions. This restricted him to 20th on the grid for the race, but he made his way through the field to finish in sixth place.  Hamilton was given a warning during the race, after he weaved four times on a straight as he tried to break the tow that Vitaly Petrov was receiving and was not intending to block him.  After the race the rules were clarified by stewards to only allow a driver to make one move during an overtaking manoeuver. , Hamilton achieved a second-place finish in China behind Jenson Button. This completed McLaren's first 1–2 finish since the 2007 Italian Grand Prix . Hamilton was involved in a pit lane incident with Red Bull driver Sebastian Vettel , for which both later received a reprimand from race stewards. In Monaco Hamilton qualified and finished 5th. In the Turkish Grand Prix Grand Prix, Hamilton claimed his first victory of the 2010 season as he and Button completed a 1–2. Hamilton qualified on pole for the Canadian Grand Prix , continuing a 100% pole record at Circuit Gilles Villeneuve . After setting his pole lap, Hamilton received instructions from his team to stop on circuit due to a lack of fuel in the car which would not be equivalent to the level necessary for a sample to be taken by the FIA. Hamilton was reprimanded after failing to complete his in-lap in a sufficient time, while his team received a $10,000 fine.  But Hamilton went on to win the race and take the lead in the Drivers' Championship after McLaren 's third 1–2 of the season. In Valencia Alonso complained on his radio that Hamilton had gained an advantage by not following the safety car which led to the stewards giving Hamilton a drive through penalty. However Alonso and the Ferrari were furious as the length of time to make a decision meant that the penalty did not alter the result of the race as Hamilton finished second.  This led to Hamilton to accuse Alonso of "sour grapes", although the pair reconciled before the next race.  , He finished second at his home race at Silverstone , and followed it up with fourth at the German Grand Prix . Despite running into the gravel at Spa-Francorchamps , Hamilton won his third race of the season and reclaimed the championship lead. At the Japanese Grand Prix , Hamilton finished fifth. In South Korea , Hamilton finished second and finished fourth at the Brazilian Grand Prix . In the final race of the season in Abu Dhabi Hamilton finished second to Vettel in the race, who broke Hamilton's record for being the youngest ever Formula One World Champion. , At the start of the 2011 season Hamilton dismissed Red Bull Racing as "just a drinks company".  Hamilton began the season qualifying and finishing second in the Australian Grand Prix , despite having to deal with a damaged floor on his McLaren .  In the Malaysian Grand Prix , he qualified second and finished seventh on-the-road, struggling partly due to tyre wear and being tagged by Ferrari's Fernando Alonso in the closing stages.  Hamilton received a 20-second time penalty post-race for weaving whilst defending and unsuitable driving, which dropped Hamilton to eighth place.  Hamilton took his first win of the season in China .  He then finished fourth in Turkey ,  and second in Spain .  , In Monaco , he qualified tenth after Q3 was red-flagged before he could set a competitive time due to a heavy crash from Sergio Pérez . During the race Hamilton received a drive through penalty after he bumped into Massa at the Hotel Harpin. Later on, Alguersuari crashed into Hamilton, breaking his rear wing; the race was red-flagged as Petrov crashed at the same time allowing his team to fix the car. On the restart he had a collision with Maldonado at Sainte Devote, which later he was given a 20-second time penalty for but it did not affect his finishing position.  In an interview with the BBC Hamilton, said that he had been to the stewards five races out of six thus far in the season and felt victimised. When prompted why he had been to the stewards so much Hamilton replied "Maybe it's because I'm black. That's what Ali G says." He later returned to the stewards and explained the joke and escaped further punishment.  , At the Canadian Grand Prix , Hamilton collided with Webber at the first corner before rejoining behind his team mate. A few laps later Hamilton tried to capitalise on a mistake attempted to pass teammate Button who pushed the former into the pitwall causing Hamilton to retire with a broken driveshaft, both agreed that it was one of those things.  In Valencia and Silverstone Hamilton finished fourth after holding off Massa whilst managing high tyre wear in the former and conserve fuel in the later.   In Germany , Hamilton took his second victory of 2011 as he held off Webber and Alonso.  In Hungary Hamilton had five pitstops and a drive-through penalty for sending Paul di Resta onto the grass as he finished fourth.  He finished fourth at Monza after a race long battle with Michael Schumacher,  who he refused to blame the German after his aggressive tactics.  , In Singapore Grand Prix , Hamilton caused an accident with Felipe Massa which left Hamilton needing a new front wing and a drive through penalty.  Hamilton was accused by Massa of being "incapable of using his brain," during a post race interview. Whilst the pair conducted interviews, Massa grabbed Hamilton's shoulder saying "Good job, man, well done" which Hamilton responded by telling the Brazilian to leave him alone.  Before the Japanese Grand Prix Hamilton insisted that he had not done anything wrong during the season.  During the race Hamilton suffered a puncture before once again tangling with Massa; despite Ferrari pushing for Hamilton to be punished, Hamilton escaped a reprimand as he finished fifth.  Hamilton later told Massa to "grow up", after admitting that his Formula One career had driven over a cliff.  , In Korea , Hamilton qualified on pole position, ending a run of 16 consecutive pole positions for Red Bull .  He led only until turn four on lap 1, where World Champion Sebastian Vettel overtook him and went on to win the race as Hamilton finished second.  At the inaugural race in India , Hamilton recorded the second-fastest time in qualifying, but was penalised three places on the starting grid, after a yellow flag infraction in Friday practice.   Hamilton finished seventh after yet another incident with Massa which left the Brazilian facing the penalty as Hamilton had to replace the front wing.  In Abu Dhabi , Hamilton qualified second and won the race.  In Brazil Hamilton and Massa ended their feud as he retired from the race and finish fifth overall in the championship.   , Hamilton remained at McLaren alongside Button for the 2012 season.  Hamilton qualified in pole position for the Australian Grand Prix , but finished third after being passed by Button at the start, and by Vettel after pitting before a safety car.  Hamilton again qualified on pole for the Malaysian Grand Prix , but in the race was passed early on by Fernando Alonso and Sergio Pérez , finishing third. Hamilton took his third consecutive third-place finish in China , with Nico Rosberg and Button ahead. Hamilton qualified in second place in Bahrain , but during the race, a series of poor pitstops put him out of contention, and he finished eighth. Hamilton was also involved in a controversial racing incident with Rosberg, with Rosberg appearing to push Hamilton off track while he attempted to overtake. Hamilton qualified on pole position for the Spanish Grand Prix , but had to stop the car on track in order for a reputable fuel sample to be given post-qualifying. The stewards decided he had breached qualifying rules introduced after a similar incident involving Hamilton at the 2010 Canadian Grand Prix . Race stewards excluded him from the qualifying results,  and demoted him to the back of the grid; but despite this, Hamilton finished eighth, ahead of Button, who had started in tenth. , Hamilton achieved his first victory of the season at the Canadian Grand Prix  – winning the race for the third time – after overtaking Fernando Alonso in the closing stages.   , Hamilton won the Hungarian Grand Prix on 29 July 2012 to claim his second win of the season.  Hamilton, along with championship leader Fernando Alonso, retired from the Belgian Grand Prix after being involved in a multiple car accident on the first corner of the race. Romain Grosjean was deemed responsible for causing the accident and was given a one-race ban. Hamilton bounced back with pole position for the Italian Grand Prix , and led for the majority of the race to claim his third victory of the season and keep his hopes of winning the Drivers' Championship alive.  Hamilton again qualified on pole at the Singapore Grand Prix , but suffered a gearbox failure whilst leading the race. He also retired from the lead of the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , before he won the United States Grand Prix in Austin .  Hamilton's season ended with another pole position and retirement in the Brazilian GP , when he was involved in a collision with Nico Hülkenberg while leading in the late stages. , On 28 September 2012, it was announced after much speculation that Hamilton would be leaving McLaren after the 2012 season to join the Mercedes-Benz works team for the 2013 season onwards, partnering Nico Rosberg after signing a three-year contract with the team.   , In his first race weekend for Mercedes, the Australian Grand Prix , Hamilton qualified in third and ended the race in fifth place. Hamilton finished third in Malaysia to take his first podium for the team, although Nico Rosberg was prevented from attempting to overtake him by team orders. At the following race in China , Hamilton secured his first pole position for Mercedes. , At Monaco after being out-qualified by his team-mate Rosberg for the third successive race, Hamilton admitted that he was struggling to control the car under braking.  Prior to the race, both Red Bull and Ferrari had lodged formal complaints against Mercedes for taking part in what was determined to be an illegal 1,000 kilometres (620 mi) tyre test. Neither Mercedes drivers received any punishment for the breach of rules, and Mercedes was given a reprimand. , At the Hungarian Grand Prix , Hamilton secured his first race win as a Mercedes driver, the first British driver to win a Formula One race in a Mercedes works car since Stirling Moss did so at the 1955 British Grand Prix , at Silverstone . He won the race from an unexpected pole position, eventually crossing the line nearly 11 seconds ahead of second-place finisher Kimi Räikkönen .  By winning the Hungarian Grand Prix, Hamilton continued his personal record of winning at least one race prior to the mid-season break, and went into the summer break lying fourth in the drivers' championship.  At the Belgian Grand Prix he secured his fifth and last pole position of the season and finished the race third. Although he did not score any podiums for the rest of the season, a string of point finishes helped him end the season in fourth place. , A new rule for the 2014 season allowed the drivers to pick a unique car number that they will use for their entire career. Hamilton picked #44, the same number he used during his karting days.  , During pre-season testing in Jerez Hamilton along with Mercedes team-mate Rosberg showed themselves as the team to beat. This was realised at the Australian Grand Prix where Hamilton took pole. He was forced to retire, but Rosberg dominated to win by over 20 seconds.  In Malaysia , Hamilton's potential was realised when he won from pole in a Mercedes one-two, the first since 1955 .  In Bahrain Mercedes were unstoppable with Rosberg claiming pole in a Mercedes front-row lockout. Hamilton got a better start but still battled hard with Rosberg through the early part of the race. Mercedes chose split strategies for their drivers, and Hamilton opened up a gap on the faster option tyres. But the safety car was called out after Esteban Gutiérrez rolled his Sauber. Hamilton was forced to battle Rosberg in a gripping race to the finish with tight wheel-to-wheel racing. In the end Hamilton won, taking consecutive victories for the first time since the 2010 season, when he won in Turkey and Canada .  , Mercedes' dominance was further confirmed in China where Hamilton took pole and then led every lap of the race while his teammate finished in second place. This completed a hat-trick of wins, the first of Hamilton's career.  Mercedes continued to dominate in Spain where Hamilton once again set pole position and went on to win the race – his fourth successive win – despite close competition from team-mate Nico Rosberg who finished in second place.  At Monaco Hamilton qualified 2nd behind Rosberg. Rosberg was investigated by the stewards after he went down the escape road at the Mirabeau corner. The resulting yellow flags forced Hamilton to back off in the final moments of the session, which could have cost Hamilton a chance at pole position.  Rosberg was cleared of any wrongdoing in that incident. Rosberg won the race with Hamilton finishing 2nd. During qualifying for the German Grand Prix , Hamilton had a brake failure and started 20th but managed to finish 3rd.  An engine fire in qualifying for the Hungarian Grand Prix meant he would start from the pit lane from where he again managed to climb to third ahead of Rosberg, despite being ordered by his race engineer to let his teammate past.  , At the first race after the summer break in Belgium , Hamilton took the lead from Rosberg at the start but a collision between them on lap two punctured his rear tyre and he later retired from the race.  He then won the Italian ,  and Singapore Grands Prix  each from pole to take the lead in the Drivers' Championship. This was followed by victories at the Japanese Grand Prix  – which was stopped due to heavy rain – the Russian and United States Grands Prix to achieve five consecutive victories for the first time in his career. His tenth victory of the season was also his 32nd career victory, the most of any British driver. Hamilton became the World Champion after winning the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , beating team mate Rosberg by 67 points, after Rosberg's car encountered mechanical trouble during the race. Hamilton said in the podium interview "This is the greatest day of my life".  , Hamilton enjoyed a continuation of Mercedes' dominance heading into the 2015 season, as the new W06 Hybrid completed more laps in pre-season testing than any rival car, and did so using just one power unit.  At the opening race in Australia , Hamilton qualified in pole position, 0.594 seconds quicker than team-mate Rosberg and 1.391 seconds clear of Felipe Massa's Williams in third.  Hamilton then won the race ahead of Rosberg in second, with Sebastian Vettel's Ferrari in third, 34 seconds back.  In Monaco he lost first position to his team mate Rosberg after leading the race for 65 laps and eventually finished third. , Ahead of the Monaco Grand Prix , Mercedes announced they had extended the contract with Hamilton for three additional years, keeping him at the squad until the end of the 2018 season. This followed months of widely publicised contract talks between the driver, who chose to negotiate on his own behalf, and the team. The deal is reportedly worth more than 100 million pounds over the full three years, making Hamilton one of the best paid drivers in Formula One.  It was also reported that the extension contract granted Hamilton the right to maintain his own image rights, which is considered unusual in the sport, and keep his championship winning cars as well as the trophies he collects.  , During the course of his F1 career, season-by-season Hamilton has beaten nearly all his team-mates in the drivers' championship, including two World Champions. The exception was in 2011 when Jenson Button beat him by 43 points. , † – Hamilton beat Alonso to 2nd in the Championship on countback of 2nd places (both had 4 wins), 5 to 4 , Hamilton's helmet was made yellow so that his father could tell which kart his son was driving back in his karting days. Hamilton chose the colours blue, green and red and they were originally in a ribbon design; however before entering F1, Hamilton felt that the design was "a bit old hat" so it was changed. In later years a white ring was added and the ribbons moved forward to make room for adverts and logos.  , During the 2010 Monaco Grand Prix , Hamilton had an altered helmet design with the addition of a roulette wheel image on the top. Hamilton had said, "...I'll also be wearing a specially-painted helmet for the occasion. When you see it, you'll know why I'll be hoping for it to swing the odds in my favour."  , Hamilton's helmet underwent one major change during his F1 career. From his debut in 2007 until 2010 his helmet was yellow with a metallic green ribbon on the upper visor and a metallic blue ribbon on the lower visor (these being visually near identical to the helmet of Ayrton Senna, apart from the fact that their designs did not loop all around the back of the helmet, but were cut off either side of the helmet.) It furthermore featured a bright red diagonal patch where these stripes bordered the visor. The yellow however was not a rich, sunburst yellow like Senna's helmet but was a whiter, pastel yellow. , From 2011 onwards Hamilton's helmet was changed whereby it no longer resembled Senna's helmet as much as it had done. The green and blue ribbons were changed to the diagonal style of the red patch, with a single red stripe behind the helmet with the letters "Hamilton" printed within it. , For the 2011 Brazilian Grand Prix , Hamilton wore a special helmet that was a fusion of his post 2011 helmet, and that of Ayrton Senna. The helmet was auctioned after the race in aid of the Ayrton Senna Foundation .  , * Season in progress. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , Hamilton holds the following Formula One records : , In October 2007, Hamilton announced his intention to live in Switzerland , stating that this was because he wished to get away from the media scrutiny that he experienced living in the United Kingdom. Hamilton admitted under questioning on the television show Parkinson , which was broadcast on 10 November 2007, that taxation was partly responsible for his decision, in addition to wanting more privacy.  Hamilton received public criticism from UK MPs including Liberal Democrat MP Bob Russell for avoiding UK taxes.  He settled in Luins in Vaud canton on Lake Geneva ;  other Formula One drivers, including world champions Michael Schumacher , Kimi Räikkönen and Fernando Alonso , also live in Switzerland.  Hamilton was one of several super-rich figures whose tax arrangements were singled out for criticism in a report by the charity Christian Aid in 2008.  , In November 2007, Hamilton started dating Nicole Scherzinger , the lead singer of the American girl band Pussycat Dolls ; it was announced in January 2010 that they split up to focus on their respective careers. However, they were seen together at the 2010 Turkish Grand Prix  and at the Canadian Grand Prix in Montreal , on 13 June 2010.  The couple split up and reunited numerous times between 2011 and 2013,   but appear to have got back together in November 2013.  They split up again in February 2015.  , At the start of 2012, he moved his personal residence from Switzerland to Monaco , which is also a tax haven.    , At the start of 2013, Hamilton took delivery of a metallic red and black Bombardier Challenger 600 series private jet, tail plate number G-LCDH, which is managed for him by TAG Aviation .   , Hamilton was awarded an MBE by the Queen in the 2009 New Year Honours .  , On 18 March 2009, Madame Tussauds unveiled a waxwork of Hamilton in his Vodafone McLaren Mercedes race suit. This wax replica cost around £150,000 and took over six months to complete.  In 2012, Hamilton featured in the cartoon Tooned , alongside Jenson Button and comedian Alexander Armstrong . , On 18 December 2007, Hamilton was suspended from driving in France for a month after being caught speeding at 196 km/h (122 mph) on a French motorway. His Mercedes-Benz CLK was also impounded.   , Two days before the 2010 Australian Grand Prix , Victoria Police witnessed Hamilton "deliberately losing traction" in his silver Mercedes-AMG C63, and impounded the car for 48 hours. Hamilton immediately released a statement of apology for "driving in an over-exuberant manner". After being charged with intentionally losing control of a vehicle, Hamilton was eventually fined A$ 500 ( £ 288), being described as a " Hoon " [boy racer] by the magistrate.    , Hamilton is a fan of art ; one of his favourite artists is Andy Warhol .  Prior to the 2014 United States Grand Prix , Hamilton wore a gold-framed version of Warhol's Cars , Mercedes Benz 300 SL Coupe painting hanging from a chain around his neck.  , One of Hamilton's favourite cars is the AC Cobra . He owns two unrestored 1967 models, one black and one red.   In February 2015, it was reported that Hamilton had purchased a Ferrari LaFerrari from "his rivals in Maranello."   Nico Erik Rosberg (born 27 June 1985) is a German racing driver , currently driving for the Mercedes Formula One team. He races under the German flag in Formula One , and has also briefly competed for Finland very early in his career. He holds dual nationality of these two countries.  , Rosberg won the 2005 GP2 Series for the ART team, having raced in Formula 3 Euro Series previously for his father Keke Rosberg 's racing organisation Team Rosberg . , For the 2010 Formula One season , Rosberg joined the re-branded Mercedes team, formed by Mercedes's takeover of 2009 constructors' champions Brawn GP . Since then, Rosberg has enjoyed his most successful period, winning 11 Grands Prix and earning 16 pole positions. His biggest career achievement was in 2014, when he finished second in the Formula One World Championship for Mercedes, behind his team-mate Lewis Hamilton . During the season he had five wins, fifteen podiums, eleven pole positions and fifteen front row starts. He kept his championship hopes alive until the final race, arriving with a 17-point deficit to Hamilton and although he qualified on pole position, problems with his car caused him to finish the race in 14th place, while Hamilton won the race and the championship. , , , Rosberg was born in Wiesbaden , Hesse , West Germany ; the son of Finnish 1982 Formula One world champion Keke Rosberg and his German wife Sina. Rosberg was born only four days after his father won the 1985 Detroit Grand Prix , driving a Williams . Rosberg spent much of his youth in Monaco with his family, still lives in the principality and speaks French and Italian fluently. He holds dual citizenship, German and Finnish and has competed under both the Finnish and German flag during different points in his early career.  He currently competes under the German flag as a driver's nationality is defined by his passport during all FIA world championships.  Rosberg married his childhood friend and long-time fiancée Vivian Sibold on 11 July 2014.  , Rosberg started out in karting in 1996 at the age of 10; later in 2000 he and Lewis Hamilton were teammates.  Rosberg then moved up to German Formula BMW in 2002, where he won the title. His performances resulted in a move to drive for his father's team in Formula 3 Euro Series , a combination of the several national Formula Three championships that had existed prior to its formation. Rosberg did well there, and stayed on for 2004. In early 2004, he got one of his first tastes of Formula One by doing a test session with Williams.  , Offered a place on the aeronautical engineering course at Imperial College London ;  Rosberg declined and in 2005 joined the ART Grand Prix team in the newly created GP2 Series . He went on to become the first driver to win the GP2 title. , In late 2005, Rosberg was officially confirmed as a Williams driver for the 2006 season . In the Engineering Aptitude Test , administered to all new Williams drivers, Rosberg achieved the highest score in the team's history.  In the first Formula One race of his young career in Bahrain , Rosberg was driving a car which was not considered competitive enough to get to the podium.  and also had to fight his way through the field after losing his nose cone on the first lap. Nonetheless, he finished in the points, seventh behind teammate Mark Webber , and recorded the fastest lap, becoming the youngest driver to do so in F1 history. Following this he was linked with a move to teams such as McLaren . [ citation needed ] , He qualified third at the next round Malaysia , but his Cosworth engine, on its second mandatory race, blew up after only seven laps. Rosberg did get into the points for the second time in the 2006 season at the European Grand Prix , benefiting from the hydraulic failure of his teammate. , The rest of the 2006 season went less well for Rosberg; he retired in four of the next seven Grands Prix, and in the ones he did finish he was outside the points. His closest attempt to get into the points was in Britain , where he was just one second behind eighth placed Jacques Villeneuve . Rosberg scored a total of four points, three fewer than teammate Webber, over the course of what was a disappointing season for both himself and for the Williams team. , Williams brought in new Toyota engines for 2007 , along with a new team-mate, Alexander Wurz . Rosberg's old team-mate, Mark Webber, had moved to partner David Coulthard at Red Bull Racing . Initially, the Toyota powered FW29 showed potential in the pre-season test sessions.  However, Rosberg remained realistic: "in F1 you cannot normally just jump back to the front [of the grid] from one year to the next".  , In 2007, Rosberg finished in the points seven times, including a career best fourth at the season-ending Brazilian Grand Prix . He was also placed seventh in the Australian , Hungarian and Turkish Grands Prix and came home sixth at the Italian and Belgian Grands Prix. At the Canadian Grand Prix , Rosberg qualified seventh and moved up two places from the start: , "Early in the race I thought I was set for a good result because I was running fifth and the car felt really good, but then the Safety Car came out on lap 21... I had to stop for fuel on lap 23, which meant I missed the re-fuelling window by 13 seconds and that effectively ended my race. New rules punish people who pit immediately after the Safety Car comes out, so I was given a 10s stop-go penalty and all I could manage after that was 10th place."  , He suffered only three retirements during 2007; hydraulic failure 14 laps from home in Malaysia and an oil leak at the US Grand Prix five laps from the finish (although classified 16th), where he was on course for sixth place. He had started the race 14th having "glazed" his brakes during qualifying, therefore damaging his confidence. An electronics glitch also put him out of the Japanese Grand Prix . , During the first half of 2007 season, Rosberg saw his teammate Alexander Wurz score more points, but later in the season Rosberg passed Wurz in world championship points, eventually more than quadrupling his 2006 points haul with 20 points. , Rosberg secured the first podium finish of his career with a strong drive to third place at the 2008 Australian Grand Prix . However, the remainder of the season was more of a struggle. He was given a ten place grid penalty for the French Grand Prix , as a result of crashing into the back of Lewis Hamilton in the pit lane at the Canadian Grand Prix , despite only his race being affected by the incident as Hamilton and Kimi Räikkönen were already eliminated. , In September he finished second to Fernando Alonso in the floodlit Singapore Grand Prix after leading a Grand Prix for the first time in his career. This result was despite incurring a ten-second stop-go penalty for pitting while the pitlane was closed immediately after the deployment of the safety car . However, as what appeared to be a simple administrative formality took ten laps to issue, and the slow car of Giancarlo Fisichella was between Rosberg and the next competitive car during those laps, he did not lose much time and rejoined fifth, whereas Robert Kubica dropped from fourth to last on the same penalty for the same offence. , Rosberg had a solid season in 2009, scoring points at almost every race and also consistently qualifying in the top ten. He opened the season with a solid sixth place in Melbourne , before fading somewhat in the next three races. From China onwards however, he improved, finishing eighth, then sixth, then fifth twice. At his home race in Germany , he put in arguably the best drive of his career at the time, when he overcame fuel problems to climb from 15th on the grid and finish fourth ahead of championship leader Jenson Button. He then followed this up with another fourth place in the Hungarian Grand Prix and 5th in the European Grand Prix . Despite scoring a point in the Belgian Grand Prix , Rosberg's effort to score points at every race in the European season was ended by a lack of pace at Monza . Despite this, Rosberg returned to competitiveness at the 2009 Singapore Grand Prix by qualifying third and putting in the fastest lap of the weekend in Q2 (1:46.197). Despite overtaking Sebastian Vettel off the line, and being on course for second place or even a maiden victory, Rosberg undid all his good work by crossing the white line out of his first pit stop and incurring a drive-through penalty just in time for the safety car. With the field bunched, he dropped to the back, effectively ruining his race. Rosberg apologised to the team afterward, calling his mistake 'silly' and 'stupid'. Rosberg managed to claim fifth place at the Japanese Grand Prix after qualifying eleventh and starting in P7 on a good strategy after a number of grid penalties. Soon after the race Jenson Button reported Rosberg to race stewards for speeding under yellow flag conditions, but Rosberg was cleared after stewards discovered that his dashboard display was only showing that he had low fuel. This secured Rosberg four points, putting him in seventh place in the Drivers Championship with 34.5 points and Williams sixth in the constructors. Rosberg scored every point for the Williams team during the 2009 season. , On 29 October 2009 Rosberg announced he was leaving the Williams team at the end of the season. He commented that Williams "have really supported my career over the years and I'd like to say a big thank you to them. However, I'm not sure they can win races at the moment and I would like to".  On 16 November 2009, Brawn GP was bought by Mercedes and re-branded as Mercedes GP for the 2010 Formula One season . On 23 November 2009, Rosberg was announced as the team's first driver.  On 23 December 2009, Michael Schumacher was announced as Rosberg's team-mate, and was given Rosberg's car number (3) because of superstitious reasons.  Despite much hype concerning Schumacher's comeback, Rosberg managed to successfully out-qualify and out-race his team mate at most races. In Malaysia , Rosberg achieved his first front row grid start, having qualified second in a qualifying session disrupted by rain; again out-qualifying Schumacher. He eventually finished third in the race; Mercedes's first podium as a works team since their comeback. His third place at the Chinese Grand Prix provided Rosberg with his second podium in succession, and he momentarily moved into second place in the drivers' standings. , He finished seventh at Monaco , fifth in Turkey and sixth in Canada , but only tenth in the European Grand Prix . However, in the British Grand Prix , Rosberg managed a podium finish in third place by holding off Alonso and then Button. But at the German Grand Prix , Mercedes were once again off the pace, and Rosberg could only finish eighth, ahead of teammate Schumacher. Hungary looked more promising, but he lost a wheel while exiting his pit stop and was forced to retire from a point-scoring position. His race at Spa was more successful, and a race-long duel with Schumacher left Rosberg narrowly ahead of his team mate in sixth. The Italian Grand Prix yielded another consistent finish in fifth, achieved mainly by passing both Red Bulls at the start, and took another fifth-place finish in Singapore . , However, he was hit by bad luck in Japan , when under pressure from Schumacher, a wheel detached itself from his car and put Rosberg into the wall. At the inaugural Korean Grand Prix he was even more unfortunate, when while running a strong fourth, he retired from the race after being collected by Mark Webber. Webber had spun into the wall and momentum took him back onto the racing line and left Rosberg with nowhere to go and the two collided. The race at Interlagos was more positive, with Rosberg finishing sixth, despite three pit stops, two of which were taken under safety car conditions which minimised a loss of track position. The following week in Abu Dhabi , Rosberg again pitted under the safety car and this allowed him to finish fourth, a result that secured him seventh in the Drivers' Championship. Rosberg finished 16 of the season's 19 races, of which 15 were points-scoring finishes. , The new Mercedes MGP W02 proved to be very fast in winter testing. In Australia , Rosberg showed his speed until retiring due to a collision with Barrichello. In Malaysia , Rosberg started ninth and finished twelfth, meaning that for the first time in his career he failed to score a single point in the opening two races of a season. Rosberg took his first points finish of the season in China , having qualified fourth and finishing fifth, as well as leading fourteen laps during the race.  During the 2011 Belgian Grand Prix , Rosberg overtook Sebastian Vettel during the first lap of the race and led again for three laps in total, but then quickly fell down the field and on lap 42 of 44 allowed his teammate Schumacher to pass him for fifth after the team warned him that he should save fuel.  , Rosberg eventually ended the championship in the seventh place for the third time in a row, again above Schumacher in the final standings. However, he had scored no podium finishes during the season, and the gap in terms of points between Rosberg and his teammate decreased from seventy points in 2010 to thirteen in 2011 . This was partly because the Mercedes MGP W02 generally had nobody to compete with, with Red Bull, McLaren and Ferrari having superior cars and other teams being more slow-paced than MGP W02.  Rosberg himself pointed to the fact that due to the new Pirelli tyres and the Drag Reduction System , introduced in 2011, overtaking had become more possible and qualifying – where he still had beaten Schumacher 16:3 – had lost its importance.  Despite that, he praised DRS, stating that it could turn out to be one of the best rules in Formula One history.  , Rosberg finished outside the points in the first two races of the season in Australia and Malaysia , finishing twelfth and thirteenth respectively. At the Chinese Grand Prix , Rosberg gained the first pole position of his career, beating Lewis Hamilton 's qualifying time by over half a second.  Rosberg took advantage of his grid position to storm to his maiden victory finishing over twenty seconds ahead of second-placed Jenson Button who fell back after a pit-stop error. In this way Rosberg took his first points of the season and Mercedes's first win since Juan Manuel Fangio won the 1955 Italian Grand Prix , prior to their withdrawal from the sport.  In addition to that, Rosberg became the first German driver to win a Grand Prix driving a German car since Hermann Lang ´s victory at the 1939 Swiss Grand Prix and the first driver to win a Grand Prix during the life of their father who also achieved a Grand Prix victory in Formula One . Subsequently, Rosberg finished 2nd in Monaco but he was mostly slower than Schumacher in qualifying, slipping to ninth in the standings. , Rosberg remained at Mercedes for the 2013 season where he was partnered with Lewis Hamilton after Hamilton signed a three-year contract with the team. Rosberg retired from the Australian Grand Prix with an electrical problem,  and he finished fourth at the Malaysian Grand Prix .  after being ordered by the team not to overtake Hamilton. During the Monaco Grand Prix , he had pole position, led every lap and won the race, especially notable given that he considers Monaco his home and that his father Keke Rosberg won the same race exactly thirty years earlier. On June 30, Rosberg claimed his second win of the season and third of his career at the British Grand Prix .  He benefited from a puncture suffered by his team-mate Hamilton and a technical failure for Vettel. Rosberg came back to being 2nd best to Vettel after the summer break qualifying 2nd, only 0.010 seconds behind Sebastian Vettel. Three races later he started and finished 2nd in India, and in Abu Dhabi he finished third. Rosberg again qualified an impressive 2nd at the wet Brazil after finishing first in the practice sessions. He even took the lead but had to settle for 5th, finishing the season in sixth place in the championship with 171 points compared to team-mate Hamilton's 189. , In the season-opening Australian Grand Prix , Rosberg, having started from third, won the race by over 20 seconds; his father Keke had won the first Formula One Australian Grand Prix in 1985 in Adelaide . Daniel Ricciardo finished the race second, but was later disqualified for a fuel infringement,  promoting Kevin Magnussen to second and his team mate Jenson Button to third. In Malaysia he finished 2nd, 17 seconds behind his teammate Lewis Hamilton , but in front of Sebastian Vettel to give Mercedes-Benz their first 1–2 since Italy in 1955. In Bahrain Rosberg took pole position but lost out to Hamilton at the start of the race, and eventually finished second to his team-mate, despite putting him under pressure numerous times. Rosberg said the race was "a day for the sport" considering the criticism that Formula One has had in 2014. In China he started fourth but fell back to sixth in the opening lap, however fought to finish second ahead of Fernando Alonso. , As the season moved to Europe for the Spanish Grand Prix , Rosberg was pipped to pole by Hamilton. Rosberg stayed with Hamilton for the whole race but could not get through, finishing 0.6 seconds behind him meaning Hamilton took the championship lead for the first time in 2014. In Monaco Rosberg took pole position, but a controversial one where he was investigated by the stewards after a suspected offence for causing a yellow flag incident.  Hamilton believed Rosberg had made the mistake deliberately to secure pole but the stewards saw it as an accidental incident. Rosberg's lead extended by 18 points in Canada after he and Hamilton had MGU-K and brake issues, but forced Hamilton to retire and not Rosberg, finishing second. , In Austria he won ahead of his teammate, and then took pole position at the British Grand Prix at Silverstone, leading until lap 28 where his gearbox failed. At the next round in Germany , Rosberg took the 9th pole position of his career, where Hamilton suffered a brake failure in qualifying, and was forced to start from 20th. Rosberg then went on to take a comfortable victory by 20 seconds from Valtteri Bottas, increasing his lead over Hamilton to 14 points. Rosberg's victory was the first German Grand Prix win for a German driver at the wheel of a German car since Rudolf Caracciola  – also for Mercedes – in 1939 . In Hungary , Rosberg took pole position again and led the early stages of the race before a safety car period. For the majority of the race, Rosberg was unable to pass the cars of Jean-Éric Vergne and team-mate Hamilton; he ultimately finished fourth, behind Ricciardo, Alonso and Hamilton.  In Belgium he collided with his teammate, putting Hamilton out of the race, while Rosberg finished second. , At Monza he overtook Hamilton for the lead, but locked up under braking for the first chicane on lap 29, and was forced down the escape road. Hamilton overtook Rosberg as he was doing so, and went on to take the race win. The next round in Singapore resulted in Rosberg retiring from the race, after an electrical failure. In Japan , Rosberg achieved pole position from Hamilton, but lost out to him in the race, held in wet conditions. From the United States Grand Prix onwards, he took three consecutive pole positions to the end of the season, winning for the fifth time in Brazil compared to Hamilton's ten. In the last race of the season at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , Rosberg still had a fighting chance to win the championship title. Later in the race he suffered from technical difficulties with his car losing the ERS . Ultimately he finished 14th and lost the title to Hamilton, saying: "Lewis did a better job than me".  He finished the season with career bests in wins (5), podiums (15), pole positions (11) and fastest laps, with 5. , Rosberg's 2015 season began with second place behind teammate Lewis Hamilton in Australia and third in Malaysia behind Sebastian Vettel from Ferrari , and Hamilton. Rosberg was second in China and third in Bahrain after a brake failure. He recorded his first pole position of the season in Spain and followed that with his first win of the season, his first in Spain and ninth career win. He achieved his tenth career win at Monaco to become the fourth driver to win the Monaco GP three times in succession (alongside Graham Hill, Ayrton Senna and Alain Prost). It was also the first time he won successive F1 races. He followed this up with second place in Canada before taking his third victory of the season, and eleventh of his career, in Austria . , For the 2014 season, a new rule allowed the driver to pick a unique car number to use throughout their entire F1 career. Rosberg picked number 6 and later tweeted "Cool. Got number 6 for my remaining F1 career! My future wife's and my dad's lucky number. So it has got to work for me too!".  He also changed the colour of his helmet after 8 years from yellow to dark grey. The overall design included chrome, some Buddhist influence, clean lines and personal symbols, designed by Jens Munser. , * Season in progress. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap)  Sebastian Vettel ( German pronunciation: [zeˈbastjan ˈfɛtəl] ; born 3 July 1987  ) is a German Formula One racing driver, currently driving for Scuderia Ferrari . He is contracted to remain in that role until at least the end of 2017.  He is a four-time Formula One World Champion, having won the championship in 2010 , 2011 , 2012 , and 2013 with Red Bull Racing .  He is among the most successful F1 drivers of all time.     , In his first year driving for Red Bull in 2009 , Vettel finished the season as the youngest-ever World Drivers' Championship runner-up. The following year he went on to become the youngest driver ever to win the World Drivers' Championship, aged 23. In the same year he helped Red Bull win the team's first World Constructors' Championship . He followed up his first championship with three more titles, becoming the youngest double, triple and quadruple world champion in Formula One.  Vettel left Red Bull Racing and ended his long-term association with the company after the 2014 season and signed a contract with Ferrari for 2015 , after activating a clause to terminate his Red Bull contract early.  , Vettel has held numerous other "youngest" Formula One records, among them: the youngest driver to have taken part in an official practice session of a Grand Prix (until Max Verstappen at the 2014 Japanese Grand Prix ), to score championship points (until Daniil Kvyat at the 2014 Australian Grand Prix ), to lead a race, to secure pole position  and to win a race .  He is also currently third in the overall tally of pole positions behind fellow German Michael Schumacher and Ayrton Senna and in fourth place among race winners .  , , , Vettel was born in Heppenheim , then West Germany,  to Norbert and Heike Vettel. He has one younger brother, Fabian, and two older sisters: Melanie, a dental technician, and Stefanie, a physiotherapist for disabled children.  Vettel suggested in an interview that he was terrible at school, but earned his Abitur at the Starkenburg Gymnasium high school in Heppenheim  with a respectable grade.  He has said that his childhood heroes were "The three Michaels" – Michael Schumacher , Michael Jordan , and Michael Jackson and mentioned that he wanted to be a singer like Michael Jackson, but realised that he could not as he did not have the voice.  Vettel is also a fan of The Beatles , collecting several records, including Abbey Road and his favourite song being " Drive My Car ". In an interview on Top Gear , Vettel stated that he was a fan of British comedy such as Little Britain and Monty Python's Life of Brian . Vettel lives in Thurgovia , Switzerland amongst other racing drivers and is a fan of German football team Eintracht Frankfurt .  Vettel has described himself as competitive, private, and impatient. Vettel also appears in advertisements for Head & Shoulders . Vettel provided the voice of character Sebastian Schnell in the version of the movie Cars 2 dubbed for German-speaking audiences. Vettel is in a relationship with Hanna Prater, a British-German childhood friend.  In January 2014, Vettel became a father for the first time with the birth of his daughter Emily.   , On the Formula One circuit, Kimi Räikkönen , his Ferrari teammate for 2015, is a close friend.     , Vettel started amateur karting at the young age of 3½ and began racing in karts series in 1995, at the age of eight. Having shown early talent, he was accepted into the Red Bull Junior Team at age 11 in 1998,  and kept on winning various titles, such as the Junior Monaco Kart Cup in 2001. In 2003, he was promoted to open-wheel cars and won the 2004 German Formula BMW Championship with 18 victories from 20 races. Having impressed in his first season of auto racing in 2003, Vettel was given a chance by Derrick Walker to test a Reynard Motorsport Champ Car in a two-day private test at the Homestead road course .   , In 2005 he drove for ASL Mucke Motorsport in the Formula 3 Euro Series . He was placed fifth in the final standings with 63 points, winning the year's top rookie honours. He tested the Williams FW27 Formula One automobile on 27 September as a reward for this Formula BMW success. He then went on to test for the BMW Sauber team. , 2006 became a busy year for the 18-year-old racing driver. He drove his second season in the F3 Euroseries, had two guest appearances in the Renault World Series and was promoted to test driver for Sauber in Formula One. A schedule that resulted in a competitive season with several victories, but ultimately no championships.  , Vettel finished as runner-up in the 2006 F3 Euroseries, behind series leader and team mate Paul di Resta . He also made his debut in the Formula Renault 3.5 Series at Misano , winning after Pastor Maldonado was disqualified.  At the next round at Spa-Francorchamps , however, his finger was almost sliced off by flying débris in an accident, and he was expected to be out of racing for several weeks.  Nevertheless, he managed to compete in the Ultimate Masters of F3 at Zandvoort the following weekend, finishing in sixth place. He also set the third-fastest lap time, and it surprised his ASM team boss Frédéric Vasseur. Vasseur said: "I was impressed for sure, because at the beginning of the week I was sure he wouldn't race! But he showed good pace from the first practice session. I can't imagine he's 100 per cent but at least we know we can be competitive in the next F3 Euroseries round at the Nürburgring next weekend – that's important."  , Vettel competed in the Formula Renault 3.5 Series in 2007 , and took his first win at the Nürburgring . He was leading the championship when he was called up to Formula One permanently. His seat was taken by Michael Ammermüller .  , Vettel became BMW Sauber third driver at the 2006 Turkish Grand Prix , when former incumbent Robert Kubica was called up to replace Jacques Villeneuve for the 2006 Hungarian Grand Prix . , On his testing debut, Vettel set the fastest time in the second Friday Free Practice before the race.  In his second testing session in the 2006 Italian Grand Prix , he set the fastest time in both Friday practice sessions, a race weekend in which all the BMW cars were quick, with his predecessor Robert Kubica finishing on the podium in the race. , Vettel was confirmed as BMW's test driver for 2007.  Following the serious crash of regular BMW driver Kubica at the Canadian Grand Prix , Vettel substituted for him at the United States Grand Prix .  He started in seventh position on the grid, finishing in eighth position to take his first World Championship point and became the youngest driver ever to score a point in Formula One (at the age of 19 years and 349 days), a record previously held by Jenson Button  – who was 20 years and 67 days old when he finished sixth at the 2000 Brazilian Grand Prix .  , On 31 July 2007, BMW released Vettel to join Red Bull 's Scuderia Toro Rosso team, replacing Scott Speed as one of its drivers from the Hungarian Grand Prix onwards.  He earned approximately US$165,000 for finishing the season with Toro Rosso.  Before the race, it was also announced that Vettel would drive for Toro Rosso in 2008 ,  alongside Sébastien Bourdais .  , Vettel struggled for his first couple of races while cutting his teeth with his new team, but managed two impressive drives in his 5th and 6th drives for Toro Rosso, a team that was averaging a little worse than 14th place in the 2007 season before Vettel's arrival. In the rain-hit Japanese Grand Prix at Fuji, Vettel worked his way up to third, behind Lewis Hamilton and Red Bull Racing's Mark Webber , and seemed to be on course for not only his but also Toro Rosso's maiden podium finish. However, Vettel crashed into Webber under safety car conditions taking them both out of the race and prompting Webber to say to ITV reporter Louise Goodman "It's kids isn't it... kids with not enough experience – you do a good job and then they fuck it all up." Webber also specifically criticized Lewis Hamilton 's erratic behaviour in contributing to the accident, describing his antics behind the safety car as "shit".   Vettel was initially punished with a ten-place grid penalty for the following race, but this was lifted after a spectator video on YouTube showed the incident may have been caused by Hamilton's behaviour behind the safety car .  Vettel bounced back to finish a career-best fourth a week later at the Chinese Grand Prix having started 17th on the grid while in mixed conditions. He collected five championship points, making it both his and Toro Rosso's best race result.  , Red Bull owner Dietrich Mateschitz stated his belief Vettel would be one of Formula One's big stars in the future. "Vettel is one of the young guys with extraordinary potential [...] He is fast, he is intelligent, and he is very interested in the technical side."  , After four races of the 2008 season, Vettel was the only driver to have failed to finish a single race, having retired on the first lap in three of them. In each of these three instances, he was involved in accidents caused by other drivers, the other being an engine failure. However, at the fifth round at the Turkish Grand Prix , he finally saw the chequered flag, albeit finishing in 17th after qualifying 14th and suffering a puncture on the opening lap. In the next race at the Monaco Grand Prix , Vettel scored his first points of the season with a fifth-place finish, after qualifying 17th. He scored again at the Canadian Grand Prix fighting off Heikki Kovalainen in the last few laps for the final championship point, having started from pit lane. Vettel finished 12th in France , before retiring on lap one at the wet British Grand Prix after being clipped by David Coulthard and aquaplaned into the gravel trap along with Coulthard. He earned another point at the German Grand Prix , fending off Fernando Alonso and securing eighth after Jarno Trulli ran wide. Vettel retired in Hungary after his engine overheated during his first pit stop. He impressed many at the European Grand Prix by setting the fastest times in the first practice session and second qualifying session, before qualifying sixth on the grid. Vettel finished the race in sixth, two seconds behind Jarno Trulli. Toro Rosso's technical director Giorgio Ascanelli explained said that something changed at the European Grand Prix in Valencia: "Suddenly Vettel understood something about how to drive an F1 car quickly. It made a huge difference – not only to the speed he could unlock, but also to his ability to do so consistently."  , At the 2008 Italian Grand Prix , Vettel became the youngest driver in history to win a Formula One Grand Prix.  Aged 21 years and 74 days, Vettel broke the record set by Fernando Alonso at the 2003 Hungarian Grand Prix by 317 days when he won in wet conditions at Monza .  Vettel led for the majority of the Grand Prix and crossed the finish line 12.5 seconds ahead of McLaren's Heikki Kovalainen. It was the first podium and win for his Toro Rosso team.  Earlier in the weekend, he had already become the youngest polesitter , after setting the fastest times in both Q2 and Q3 qualifying stages,  and his win also gave him the record of youngest podium finisher. Toro Rosso team boss Gerhard Berger said, "As he proved today, he can win races, but he's going to win world championships. He's a cool guy".  Hamilton praised the German, stating that this victory showed "how good he is".  The nature of the victory and the story of the 21-year-old's fledgling career led the German media to dub him "baby Schumi ", although Vettel was quick to downplay the expectation the result had brought, particularly the comparison with the seven-time World Champion: "To compare me with Michael Schumacher is just a bit ridiculous... It will be difficult in normal conditions for us to repeat this achievement".  He then went on to finish fifth in Singapore . In Japan , he finished sixth after being promoted from seventh after teammate Bourdais was penalised for contact with Felipe Massa . , In the Brazilian Grand Prix , after running as high as second in the race on a 3-stop strategy, Vettel overtook Lewis Hamilton in the rain for fifth place on the penultimate lap to contribute to a thrilling climax to the season. He nearly deprived the McLaren driver of the championship before Timo Glock slowed dramatically on the last lap (he was struggling with dry tyres in the ever increasing rain) enabling both Vettel and Hamilton to pass him, earning Hamilton the title, and Vettel fourth place. , After the season had finished Vettel was named Rookie of the Year at the Autosport Awards .  , At the start of the 2009 season, Vettel replaced the retired David Coulthard at Red Bull Racing , and began strongly at the Australian Grand Prix , qualifying third and running in second for the majority of the race. However, a clash with Robert Kubica over second place on the third to last lap of the race forced both to retire. Vettel attempted to finish the race on three wheels behind the safety car to salvage some points, but eventually pulled off to the side. He thought that he would be able to attempt this because the yellow flag resulting from his incident forbids overtaking; instead he was given a ten-place grid penalty for the next race, the Malaysian Grand Prix , and his team was fined for instructing him to stay on track after the damage occurred.  In Malaysia he qualified in third position, but was demoted down to 13th due to his ten-place grid drop. He spun out of the race while eighth, just before the race was stopped due to adverse weather conditions.  However, in China he went on to take pole position, the first for the Red Bull Racing team. He went on to win the race ahead of teammate Mark Webber , again a first for his team, which scored its first victory and one-two finish in the same race.  At the age of 21 years and 287 days, Vettel became the youngest Grand Prix driver in history to win for two different teams, having won the 2008 Italian Grand Prix for the Toro Rosso team. , In the Bahrain Grand Prix , Vettel qualified in third, and finished second behind Jenson Button in the race. In Spain , he qualified in second but finished the race in fourth, behind his teammate Mark Webber who finished in third. Vettel won the British Grand Prix after claiming pole position in qualifying.  At the German Grand Prix he qualified fourth and finished second, behind Webber, who won his first Grand Prix.  At the Hungarian Grand Prix , Vettel qualified second after an eventful qualifying, but had to retire from the race on lap 30 after his car sustained damage from contact with Kimi Räikkönen 's car on the first lap.  , At the European Grand Prix , he qualified fourth but had to retire from the race with an engine failure. It was the second engine failure for Vettel during the weekend, and the RB5's reliability issues began to show.  He finished third at Spa-Francorchamps , and struggled for pace at Monza, finishing 8th at a race he previously won. He qualified 2nd at Singapore, but was given a drive-though penalty for speeding in the pit lane and damaged the diffuser on a kerb, struggling to 4th. He subsequently won the Japanese Grand Prix from pole position, leading every lap and only being denied of the fastest lap by 0.002 seconds by teammate Mark Webber, who did so on the final lap.  He would have to wait until the 2011 Indian Grand Prix until he finally achieved a Grand Slam . , At the Brazilian Grand Prix , Vettel qualified 16th in a rain-hit session, behind title rival Jenson Button (14th) and Rubens Barrichello (1st), while his teammate Webber qualified second with Adrian Sutil in third. Vettel needed to score at least second place in the race to keep his title hopes alive. He finished fourth with Button behind, giving Button the Championship and moving Vettel up into second place. He officially claimed second place by winning the inaugural Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , again ahead of Webber with Button completing the podium. He also scored his third fastest lap of the year, drawing him level with teammate Webber. However, as Vettel had more second fastest laps, he won the 2009 DHL Fastest Lap Award .  , On 21 August 2009 it was announced that Red Bull and Vettel had extended his contract until the end of the 2011 season  with an option for 2012 . The option was later taken up on 14 March 2011, as Vettel extended his contract with the team until the end of 2014.  , Vettel continued with Red Bull for 2010, and took the first pole position of the season at the Bahrain Grand Prix . Vettel went on to lead most of the race but a spark-plug failure meant that his lap times slowed down, and as a result the two Ferraris and the McLaren of Lewis Hamilton passed him. After a brief challenge from Rosberg he brought the car home in fourth. , At the Australian Grand Prix , Vettel was appointed as a director of the Grand Prix Drivers' Association .  He took his second consecutive pole position in Australia, ahead of teammate Mark Webber , but spun off when leading the race, due to a loose wheel nut. In Malaysia , he took his first win of the 2010 season with Webber coming in second place, having passed both him and Nico Rosberg at turn one.  , Vettel qualified on pole at China alongside Webber. At the start of the wet race Fernando Alonso jump-started  and Vettel was passed by Webber, dropping back to third. The increasing rain forced Vettel and Webber to pit at the same time for intermediate tyres that wore out after only a few laps and dropped them back into the midfield. Vettel slowly climbed back up to finish sixth, ahead of Webber. In Spain , Vettel was outqualified by teammate Webber and claimed second on the grid. Despite having a major brake problem during the last eight laps, Vettel managed third place after Hamilton crashed on the penultimate lap. , In Monaco Vettel was again outqualified by Webber. In the race he passed Kubica at the start and stayed there for the remainder of the Grand Prix and made it a Red Bull 1–2. After the race, the two Red Bull drivers were equal on points in the Drivers' Championship, with Webber being a championship leader based on total wins. At the Turkish Grand Prix he qualified third and was running second behind Webber when he made a passing move on the Australian. The two collided, putting Vettel out of the race and dropping him to fifth in the Drivers' Championship, with neither driver accepting responsibility for causing the collision. He finished fourth at the Canadian Grand Prix , maintaining his position in the standings. He started the European Grand Prix in pole position and led from start to finish to score his second win of the season. , At Silverstone , both Vettel and Webber's cars were fitted with a new design of front wing. Vettel's front wing was damaged in the third practice session, and Webber's sole surviving example was removed and given to Vettel.  Vettel qualified in pole position ahead of his teammate, but suffered a puncture caused by driving wide off the track on the first lap of the race and fell to the tail of the field. He fought back to finish seventh while Webber took the victory. At the German Grand Prix he took pole by 0.002 seconds, and finished in third position in the race, behind the Ferraris of Alonso and Felipe Massa , after a poor start. He also finished third in Hungary after serving a drive-through penalty for exceeding ten lengths behind the previous car, teammate Webber, under neutralised safety car conditions. In Belgium , he had a tough race, hitting Button's car whilst attempting to pass, causing Button to retire. Vettel pitted and carried on, but then suffered a puncture whilst passing Liuzzi at the same place, completing a whole lap with a puncture. He eventually finished 15th, his lowest placing of the season (other than his retirements in Australia and Turkey). At Monza he finished fourth after an engine problem scare, and at the Singapore Grand Prix , Vettel qualified and finished second, sticking on Alonso's tail for most of the race. He passed Button for fourth place in the championship. At the Japanese Grand Prix , he dominated all practice sessions bar one, as it was postponed after heavy rain. He qualified on pole ahead of team mate Webber and went on to win with a lights-to-flag victory. Aged 23 years and 98 days, Vettel became the youngest Grand Prix driver to win at the same track on two occasions, having also won the Japanese Grand Prix at Suzuka in 2009. At the first Korean Grand Prix , Vettel took pole and led the first 45 laps of the race before retiring with engine failure, handing victory to Alonso. , At the Brazilian Grand Prix , Vettel qualified second but took the lead at the first corner and led for the entire race to victory. With Webber taking second place, and Alonso finishing third, Vettel went into the final race of the season with a 15-point deficit to Alonso, and a 7-point gap to Webber. With the one-two finish in Brazil, Vettel and Webber secured Red Bull Racing's first Formula One World Constructors' Championship. He won the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix from pole again, to take the Drivers' Championship lead for the first time in his career and became the youngest world champion in the sport's history.    Following John Surtees in the 1964 season and James Hunt in 1976 , this was also only the third time in Formula One history when the World Champion had not been championship leader at any earlier point in the season. , After the postponement of the Bahrain Grand Prix , Vettel started his title defence in style in the Australian Grand Prix with pole position and a victory of 22 seconds over title rival Lewis Hamilton , who was nursing home his broken McLaren. Vettel continued his title defence in the Malaysian Grand Prix , where he pipped Hamilton for pole position by a tenth of a second, and went on to win the race from Jenson Button. Vettel completed his third pole position of the season at the Chinese Grand Prix , and appeared to be in dominating form for the majority of the race. However, poor tyre management haunted him in the last several laps, possibly being related to his inability to properly communicate with his team, as his radio was broken. He finished the race second, his championship lead cut to 21 points (by Hamilton) after three races.  , The Turkish Grand Prix started out poorly for Vettel, where he had very little practice time during the Friday free practice sessions, including a crash in the first session. Even with the limited practice, he claimed his fifth consecutive pole position and converted it into a win, extending his championship lead over Hamilton to 34 points. At the Spanish Grand Prix , his pole position streak ended as his KERS failed him during qualifying. His teammate Webber took pole, but Vettel went on to win the race by 0.6 seconds over Hamilton, with Hamilton chasing him down at the end on prime tyres, and Vettel having to deal with a frequently malfunctioning KERS.  The following weekend, in the Monaco Grand Prix , he took pole with the second fastest qualifying time in Monaco's history. Vettel was leading the race with a 5-second gap over second-placed Button. Due to a radio malfunction, the Red Bull pit crew was not prepared for Vettel when he pitted. The net result was that the pitstop was slow, and that he was sent out on the wrong tyres, handing the lead to Button as well. Vettel switched to a one-stop strategy, and stuck with one set of soft tyres for 56 laps. He was caught by Alonso and Button as his tyres deteriorated, but neither were able to pass him. With a few laps remaining, the race was red-flagged after Vitaly Petrov required an ambulance after an accident. The suspended race allowed teams to change tyres and work on the cars, and when the race was restarted under the safety car, Vettel was able to retain the lead during the last few laps.  , In Canada , he took his sixth pole position in seven races ahead of Fernando Alonso and Felipe Massa . Vettel kept his lead from the start of the race, and for the vast majority of the race he held on to it. The record six safety car periods due to the down-pouring rain and 2-hour race suspension profoundly hurt Vettel's chances of victory, however, as after every safety car restart, Vettel would lose the gap he had previously built up on the other drivers. With much fresher tyres, Button caught Vettel and began to pressure him in the last lap. Vettel slid on a damp part of the track at Turn 6, and Button used the opportunity to slip past him to take the victory. Vettel finished second, yet still extended his championship lead to 60 points ahead of Button. , At the European Grand Prix , the FIA began enforcing a controversial ban on engine mappings. It was believed by many in the press that this was an attempt by the FIA to thwart Vettel's domination of the season.  The changes appeared to do little to hinder Vettel, as he took pole with the fastest qualifying lap in the track's history. He dominated the race with his first triple of 2011 with pole, fastest lap, and won his sixth race out of eight races. It was the first time in Formula One history where, in the first eight races, 1) a driver finished first in six or more races and 2) finished second or better in all 8 races. , The second set of controversial mid-season changes were implemented at Silverstone , targeting the blown diffusers . Red Bull believed the changes cost them about half a second per lap.  Webber just edged Vettel for pole position by 0.032 seconds in qualifying. On race day, Vettel made a better start, immediately took the lead and led the first half of the race. A delay at one of his pit stops allowed Alonso to pass him in the pit lane and dropped Vettel back to third, behind Hamilton. Despite a malfunctioning KERS unit, he was able to jump Hamilton in the stops and held off the faster Webber, who ignored a radio message from team principal Christian Horner to hold position, for second place, extending his lead in the championship.  , Vettel's run of fourteen successive front-row starts and eleven successive top two finishes ended at his home race , where he qualified third and finished fourth. McLaren 's mechanical grip outclassed Red Bull in the wet in Hungary , and despite leading into the first corner from pole, he was quickly passed by both Hamilton and Button. Vettel eventually finished second in the race, held in mixed conditions. In Belgium , Vettel qualified on pole and won the race, his seventh victory of the season and seventeenth of his career. In victory, Vettel extended his lead in the championship to 92 points and, even with seven races left, his tally of 259 points surpassed his own record (from 2010 ) for the highest number of championship points accumulated in a season. At the Italian Grand Prix at Monza , he took his tenth pole position of the year – joining Ayrton Senna as the only drivers to have taken ten pole positions in two separate seasons – and the 25th of his career,  and eventually won the race after passing Alonso, who had overtaken Vettel at the start. Vettel led every lap from pole position in Singapore , despite a safety car period eliminating a 22-second lead that he had held. His ninth win of the season left only Jenson Button in championship contention, who was 124 points behind with five races remaining. , Vettel arrived in Japan needing only a single championship point, tenth place, to secure his second championship. In qualifying, Vettel recorded his twelfth pole position of the season – his fifth in succession – edging Button by 0.009 seconds. In the race, Vettel held the lead until the second pit-stop phase, when Button used the undercut to get past.  He remained second after a safety car restart, but because his tyres wore out not long after that, he slipped down to third behind Alonso. He tried to fight Alonso for the position, but after several unsuccessful passing attempts, his race engineer told him to hold position and defend his championship. This podium finish secured his second successive title with four races remaining, making him the youngest ever double world champion and also the youngest back-to-back champion, joining only eight other drivers who had won consecutive titles.  In Korea , Vettel started second, but won the race – becoming the second driver to take at least ten wins in a season after Michael Schumacher   – after overtaking Lewis Hamilton on the first lap, building a healthy gap for the rest of the race, and recording the fastest lap of the race on the final lap. He helped secure Red Bull's second successive Constructors' World Championship in the process.   Vettel took his eleventh victory of the season in the inaugural Indian Grand Prix , leading every lap from pole position, as well as setting the race's fastest lap on the final lap, despite Red Bull having detuned his engine in an effort not to risk the race victory.   , At the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , Vettel took his fourteenth pole position of 2011 to equal the record of poles in a season set by Nigel Mansell in 1992 .  Vettel had a good start to maintain the lead by the first corner, but at the second corner, a right rear puncture saw him go sliding off the track. He returned to the pits, but suspension damage forced his first retirement since the 2010 Korean Grand Prix . Vettel then broke the record for the most poles in a season at the next round, the season finale in Brazil .  He maintained his lead into the first corner but was slowed by gearbox trouble early in the race. He allowed teammate Webber to pass him as his problem worsened, but eventually finished second ahead of Button to complete a 1–2 sweep for the team upon Webber's only victory of the year. Vettel completed the year with 15 poles, 11 victories, and 17 podiums from 19 races; he also earned a record total of 392 points in the process. , Vettel remained at Red Bull for the 2012 season,  and was again partnered by Mark Webber. He scored a second-place finish at the opening race of the season in Australia .  Vettel started fifth in Malaysia , promoted from sixth after Kimi Räikkönen suffered a five-place grid penalty. Vettel spent the majority of the rain-affected race in fourth place, but picked a puncture from a collision with the HRT of Narain Karthikeyan on lap 47. He dropped to twelfth after pitting to replace the tyre, and finished eleventh after Pastor Maldonado retired late in the race with an engine failure. This was Vettel's first finish outside the points since the 2010 Belgian Grand Prix ; Karthikeyan was given a 20-second post-race penalty for his part in the collision, which dropped Karthikeyan from 21st to 22nd and last. , After the race, Vettel and Red Bull boss Christian Horner criticised Karthikeyan's driving, with Vettel calling Karthikeyan an "idiot",  and a "cucumber".  Karthikeyan hit back at Vettel, calling him a "cry-baby".  Later, Karthikeyan decided to call a truce with Vettel, stating his respect for Vettel's abilities and saying "I think we have to deal with it in a mature way and forget about it."  Vettel qualified eleventh for the Chinese Grand Prix ; the first time he had qualified outside the top ten since the 2009 Brazilian Grand Prix ,  although he ran as high as 2nd with 7 laps remaining until tyre wear on a 2-stop strategy took its toll and he dropped to 5th by the flag. , Vettel qualified in pole position for the first time in 2012 at the Bahrain Grand Prix . Vettel was able to lead for most of the race, despite coming under pressure from Kimi Räikkönen , and crossed the line in first place to take his first victory of the season; the result also saw Vettel go top of the drivers' standings for the first time in 2012. At the Spanish GP , he maintained his championship lead, albeit only on countback, after a 6th-place finish having started 7th following on from a qualifying session in which he didn't set a time in Q3. Vettel received a drive-through penalty for failing to slow for yellow flags during the race as well as having to change his front wing as a result of debris from an incident involving Michael Schumacher and Bruno Senna. After an eventful race at Monaco , he placed fourth, gaining 5 places from his ninth-place grid position. , Vettel claimed his 2nd pole position for the season in Canada , however he dropped to 3rd after the first pitstops and then trying to go the remaining distance of the same tyres, he fell back in the closing stages and had to make a late stop for new tyres. He eventually came 4th. At the following race in Valencia , he claimed his 33rd pole position, going 3rd equal with Jim Clark and Alain Prost in the all-time list. However joy turned to despair in the race as a 20-second lead in the first 20 laps was reduced to nothing by a safety car appearance. On the first lap of the restart, his car ground to a halt, with an alternator failure being the cause. Vettel would have taken the lead in the standings- instead, he fell back to 4th behind Alonso (who won), Hamilton and Webber. , At Silverstone , Vettel qualified 4th after a wet session which, at one point, had to be suspended for over 1 hour due to torrential rain. In the dry race he overcame a slow start, where he dropped to 5th, to finish 3rd behind Webber and Alonso. In Germany he started second, but before the third pit-stop, he was attacked by Hamilton, who wanted to unlap himself, lost some time, and was overtaken by Button after the pit-stop. On the penultimate lap he passed Button and finished second behind Alonso. After the race, however, the stewards found that Vettel was off the track when he overtook Button and so they awarded him a 20-second time penalty which dropped him back to fifth. At the following race in Hungary, Vettel finished 4th after starting 3rd. Then, at the Belgian Grand Prix , he fought back from a poor qualifying, where he was knocked out in Q2 to start 10th, and a poor start in which he had to avoid the big accident ahead of him. Having ended the first lap in 12th, he managed to finish 2nd. At Round 13 in Italy , Vettel started 5th and was running 4th until he forced Fernando Alonso onto the grass, for which he received a drive-through penalty, dropping him to 9th. Then, having recovered to 6th with 5 laps to go, the alternator on his car failed for the second time in the weekend. Vettel was classified 22nd, with championship leader Alonso coming 3rd and Hamilton winning. , After the summer break, the next race was the Singapore Grand Prix , where Vettel qualified 3rd. He overtook Pastor Maldonado at the start, before the leader Lewis Hamilton retired with a car failure. Vettel then kept the lead until the 2-hour race limit was reached. It was his first win in 10 races, ending his worst run since his maiden win (which came in his 22nd race). At Suzuka for the Japanese Grand Prix , Vettel took his 2nd career Grand Slam (Pole, Fastest Lap and lead every lap) and coupled with Alonso retiring on the first lap, he cut the gap down to just 4 points. On 14 October he won his third consecutive race at the Korean Grand Prix. He overtook his team mate Mark Webber, who took the pole, to finish the race ahead of him, making it a Red Bull one-two finish. South Korean " Gangnam Style " rapper PSY waved the chequered flag as Vettel crossed the finish line.  With this win, Vettel took the lead in the overall championship from Ferrari's Fernando Alonso . The Indian Grand Prix brought another victory, with Vettel topping all 3 practice sessions before taking pole position and leading every lap of the race to a comfortable win, ahead of teammate Mark Webber in 3rd – who lost his 2nd place when a KERS failure slowed him down.  , Abu Dhabi presented one of Vettel's most controversial qualifying sessions of the season when, after setting the third fastest time in Q3, he was told to stop the car. A fuel pump issue was later found to be the source of this problem and the ensuing penalty  meant Vettel was to start the race from last, but as Red Bull then decided to make changes to the car, he was forced to start from the pit lane. However, in the race, Vettel managed to fight his way back to 3rd place to complete the podium. After a podium in the US Grand Prix Vettel was well set up to win the championship in Brazil . Vettel started the race with a 13-point cushion against title contender Fernando Alonso . After a close eventful race full of spins, which included Vettel's opening lap incident with Bruno Senna , crashes and changing weather conditions, Vettel finished 6th while Alonso finished 2nd, resulting in Vettel winning the championship by three points.  This was Vettel's third consecutive championship, and at age 25 he became the youngest ever triple world champion,  beating Ayrton Senna 's previous record. Senna won his third F1 world championship title in 1991 at age 31.  Vettel also became the third driver to acquire three-consecutive championships, after Juan Manuel Fangio and Michael Schumacher .  , Vettel started his fifth season with Red Bull Racing by qualifying on pole for the 2013 Australian Grand Prix ,  before going on to finish the race in third place, twenty-two seconds behind race winner Kimi Räikkönen .  He took pole again for the Malaysian Grand Prix in dominant display of wet weather driving, lapping over 2.5 seconds faster than teammate Webber.  He went on to win the race, though not without controversy, after Vettel ignored team orders not to pass teammate Mark Webber . Webber emerged from the pits a fraction of a second ahead of Vettel as they went side-by-side into the first corner. Although Red Bull told both drivers that they were to finish with Webber to take the win, after two laps Vettel eventually overtook Webber for the lead with eleven laps remaining in the race. Webber was furious after the race.  Team principal Christian Horner , although unhappy with Vettel's actions, pointed out that Webber had defied team orders on several previous occasions, as recently as two races ago . Horner acknowledged that the already fragile relationship between the two drivers had further broken down as a result of the incident.  Vettel apologised for his actions, claiming that he had not deliberately ignored the order despite the team's insistence that he had been made perfectly aware of the instruction to maintain his position.  Vettel later recanted his apology, claiming that he was not sorry for winning and that if the situation presented itself again, he would have passed Webber in spite of the order, adding that he felt Webber did not deserve to win the race.  , In the Chinese Grand Prix , Vettel qualified 9th, after not setting a time in Q3, before finishing 4th, setting fastest lap and crossing the line two-tenths behind 3rd placed Lewis Hamilton . Vettel won from second on the grid in Bahrain , passing Nico Rosberg in the opening laps. Vettel maintained the championship lead with 4th in Spain , and 2nd at the Monaco Grand Prix . He won in dominant fashion at Montreal , winning from pole position by 15 seconds and lapping everyone up to 5th, extending his lead to 36 points. , His lead was cut at the British Grand Prix as he was denied a likely win due to gearbox failure, but he bounced back to win his home race in Germany for the first time, despite pressure from Kimi Räikkönen and Romain Grosjean. In Hungary , Vettel had to settle for 3rd behind Hamilton and Räikkönen, but wins in Belgium (from 2nd on the grid), Italy , Singapore and Korea (all 3 from pole) put him 77 points clear with only 5 races to go. With grand slams at Singapore & Korea, he became only the 3rd man after Alberto Ascari and Jim Clark to take consecutive grand slams. Vettel sealed his fourth world title at the 2013 Indian Grand Prix on 27 October.   , "It's very difficult for me personally, to receive boos, even though you haven't done anything wrong." , On several occasions during the season, spectators booed Vettel. Although the booing was widely condemned by fellow drivers, the media and others in the paddock,   Vettel revealed that it had a negative impact on him.  , Prior to the 2011 Japanese Grand Prix , Red Bull's advisor Helmut Marko expressed his wish to extend Vettel's contract for another two years to 2016.  However, on 11 June 2013, Vettel agreed to a one-year contract extension with Red Bull until the end of the 2015 season.  , For the 2014 season and beyond, drivers picked a unique car number that they will use for the remainder of their Formula One career, Vettel chose the number five. However, as reigning World Drivers' Champion he carried number one throughout 2014.  After having Mark Webber as a team-mate for five years, Vettel's new team-mate in 2014 was Australian Daniel Ricciardo , who was promoted from the Toro Rosso team. , After struggling with reliability issues throughout winter testing, the season did not start much better for Vettel. At the Australian Grand Prix , software issues meant Vettel qualified in twelfth position  and forced him to retire from the race after just three laps.  Reliability problems also forced Vettel to retire at the Monaco and Austrian Grands Prix. Vettel qualified on the front-row for the races in Malaysia , Great Britain , and Hungary , and finished on the podium in Malaysia, Canada , Singapore and Japan . On 4 October 2014, Red Bull Racing announced that Vettel would be leaving the team at the end of the 2014 season, one year before his contract was due to expire.  After the Russian Grand Prix , he had been outqualified by a teammate over a season for the first time in his Formula One career. In addition to suffering reliability problems, throughout 2014 Vettel struggled to get to grips with the Red Bull RB10 ,  and Pirelli's 2014 tyres.  Vettel signed off the 2014 season, by becoming the first defending champion to fail to win a race in the following season, since Jacques Villeneuve in 1998 .  , The next stage of my Formula 1 career will be spent with Scuderia Ferrari and for me that means the dream of a lifetime has come true. When I was a kid, Michael Schumacher in the red car was my greatest idol and now it's an incredible honour to finally get the chance to drive a Ferrari. I already got a small taste of what the Ferrari spirit means, when I took my first win at Monza in 2008, with an engine from the Prancing Horse built in Maranello. The Scuderia has a great tradition in this sport and I am extremely motivated to help the team get back to the top. I will put my heart and soul into making it happen. , Vettel mentioned he would like to drive for Ferrari at some point in his career and was rumoured to have a non-binding pre-contract, with options, to join them in 2014.  Red Bull believed he would stay with the team for as long as they supplied a competitive car.  , On the day Vettel and Red Bull announced parting ways, team principal Christian Horner announced that Vettel was going to sign with Ferrari .  From there it took from early October to 20 November for Ferrari to announce a three-year contract with Vettel.  At the same time, Ferrari announced that Vettel's long time championship rival Fernando Alonso would be departing the team at the end of the season; meaning Vettel would partner Kimi Räikkönen at the team.  , Vettel was denied an early release from his Red Bull contract to test the 2014 Ferrari car in Abu Dhabi post-race.  Vettel instead made his first appearance at the Ferrari factory over the weekend of 29–30 November, completing nearly 100 laps around the test track of Fiorano in the 2012 car as well as performing simulator work and completing his first official interview as a Ferrari driver.  According to Ferrari's official website, Vettel did however try the simulated 2014 car in the team's simulator program. , Vettel made his Ferrari début by finishing third in the Australian Grand Prix after overtaking Felipe Massa for the position during the pit stop window.  The previous day he had narrowly outqualified team mate Kimi Räikkönen for fourth on the grid. Vettel followed that up with winning the Malaysian Grand Prix ,  his first race win for over a year and the first win for Ferrari for almost two years. It was also his 40th Grand Prix win, putting him one win behind Ayrton Senna , the 3rd-placed driver on the all-time list. After the win, an emotional Vettel paid tribute to Michael Schumacher, saying that his hero's achievements with Ferrari made the first win all the more special.  Vettel also stated his goal was to try to win the championship. Mercedes' executive director Toto Wolff admitted at the same time that Vettel was a title contender, saying that Ferrari's recovery over the winter was 'incredible'.  Vettel ran both Mercedes cars close for the first half of the race in China , but eventually had to settle for third – his third successive podium – which was a result that both Vettel and the team admitted was always the most likely on that particular occasion.  , Vettel was involved in a minor tangle with Sergio Pérez during practice for the Bahrain Grand Prix , damaging his front wing coming out of the pits. Vettel claimed the impact happened because of a brake issue that failed to slow the car down saying 'something broke on the front right' on the team radio.  In spite of his claims, the incident was investigated by the race stewards. Both Vettel and Pérez were cleared of any wrongdoing later that evening, and so escaped any penalties.  The rest of the weekend was mixed for Vettel, who qualified on the front row, but had several issues and off-track escapades during the race before being stuck behind Valtteri Bottas ' Williams and having to settle for fifth.  Given that he had qualified on the front row and that team mate Räikkönen was second, the result was somewhat underwhelming, and he dropped to third place in the championship as a result. Vettel commented that he lost his rhythm during the race and did not have enough confidence in the rear end of the car, but nevertheless remained positive about the performance potential of the car.  Before his front wing damage, Vettel had twice overtaken Nico Rosberg for second place during pitstops, only to immediately be pegged back. Vettel was in second for a long spell during the Spanish Grand Prix but due to a change of pit stop strategy, Lewis Hamilton got past and pulled away, leaving Vettel in third at the end of the race.  He finished second in Monaco . , During the course of his Formula One career, season-by-season Vettel has beaten nearly all his team-mates in the drivers' championship. The exception was in 2014 when Daniel Ricciardo beat him by 71 points. Over the course of his career, Vettel has outscored his team mates by 37.45%* (1738* vs 1264.5*). , * Season in progress. , Vettel competed in the 2007 Race of Champions at Wembley Stadium , representing the German team alongside Michael Schumacher .  Vettel and Schumacher won the Nations' Cup Title, after exciting finals. Vettel had to beat two RoC champions, Heikki Kovalainen and Marcus Grönholm , after Schumacher stalled his car. Vettel lost the individual competition however, in first heat, in his second battle against Kovalainen. , Vettel also competed in the 2008 Race of Champions , alongside Michael Schumacher. Once again they won the Nations' Cup Title after a close final against Scandinavia . In the Drivers' Cup, Vettel beat Troy Bayliss in Round One, but lost to Sébastien Loeb in the quarter-finals. Again Vettel teamed up with Michael Schumacher for the 2009 RoC Nations Cup, which they went on to win in a run-off against the Great Britain team of Jenson Button and Andy Priaulx. In the 2010 edition , on home ground in Düsseldorf , Vettel again teamed up with Schumacher to win the fourth consecutive Nations Cup.  In the Drivers' Cup, Vettel was eliminated in the semi-finals by Filipe Albuquerque , who went on to win the event. , In 2011 , Vettel and Schumacher completed their fifth consecutive Nations Cup win, beating the Nordic team of Tom Kristensen and Juho Hänninen 2–0 in the final. In the semi-finals, Vettel had to beat both Andy Priaulx and Jenson Button , after Schumacher lost to Button. The year after , Vettel and Schumacher won their sixth Nations Cup title by defeating the French team of Romain Grosjean and Sébastien Ogier 2–0 in the final. , Vettel's passion for different helmet designs started at a young age, and from his early days in karting, he has worked with helmet designer Jens Munser. At age eight, Vettel wanted the crab from The Little Mermaid , who was also called Sebastian, on his helmet.  Vettel's original helmet, in Formula One, like most Red Bull-backed drivers, was heavily influenced by the energy drink company logo. New to Vettel's helmet since the start of 2008 has been the incorporation of the red cross shape of the Kreis Bergstraße coat of arms on the front, just underneath the visor, in honour of the region of his birthplace, Heppenheim. , After switching to Red Bull in 2009, Vettel started regularly using a variety of new helmet designs. Some designs were small changes to his original Red Bull design, while others are completely original designs, such as the one he used at the 2010 Japanese Grand Prix: Vettel had a special white-red helmet design, with black kanji and hiragana for "gives you wings". Several of his helmet designs also featured his team members.  At the 2012 Italian Grand Prix , Vettel celebrated his 50th helmet design with a 'rusty' matte look and 50 tallies, indicating his 50 helmet designs in Formula One.  At the end of the 2013 Formula One season , Sebastian Vettel has used 76 different helmets throughout his career. "I have a quirk" he admits.  , Vettel started his 2013 campaign with a new design in honour of Felix Baumgartner , for his world record Red Bull Stratos space jump in October 2012.  , Helmet manufacturer Arai have stated Vettel 'retires' a helmet design after each win, although he does not need to win in order to sport a new design.  , After moving to the Ferrari team, prior to the start of the 2015 season Vettel said that he will no longer change helmet designs so often and after choosing a new design, having had a Red Bull design since he was 12, will try to stick to one design for the year, which was also enforced by a FIA rule banning 'significant' helmet changes in-season.  His new helmet design is white with the German national flag running from front to back from the middle to the viewer's left hand side and his permanent Formula One start number 5 on the top.  The helmet itself is said to be a replica of the helmet Michael Schumacher ran in his karting days. , Inspired by American bomber pilots in World War II , Vettel has made it a tradition to name his cars. Vettel invites his team members to dinner when they arrive for the first race of the season and shares what the new car will be named.  "It’s important to have a close relationship with a car. Like a ship, a car should be named after a girl as it’s sexy." The car he drove for his first full season in 2008 , the Toro Rosso STR3 , was named Julie,  followed by Kate and Kate's Dirty Sister ( 2009 ), Luscious Liz and Randy Mandy ( 2010 ), Kinky Kylie ( 2011 ),  Abbey ( 2012 ),  and Hungry Heidi ( 2013 ).  Vettel's car for 2014 , the Red Bull RB10 , was baptized "Suzie".  Vettel has continued this tradition in his first year with Ferrari and christened his SF15-T Eva.  , Vettel's unexpected win at the 2008 Italian Grand Prix led the media to dub him the "Baby Schumi", "New Schumacher". He was not just dubbed this for his nationality, but also because of his driving style, his concentration and the hands-on role he plays behind the scenes with his team of engineers. Vettel played down the comparison stating he wanted to be the "New Vettel".  , Nevertheless, the similarities are marked. Like Schumacher, Vettel grew up in a small town with an everyday background—Schumacher's father a bricklayer and Vettel's a carpenter. Both had their first taste of racing at the Kerpen karting track near Cologne, not far from the Nürburgring. Vettel began driving in his garden lapping the garden many times, not even stopping to eat or shower, before he could legally take to the roads, and said his passion for cars was nurtured by watching Schumacher compete.  , After winning his first championship in 2010 , and being hailed as the 'Next Schumacher', Vettel has stated he did not want to aim for Schumacher's record after learning how hard it was to get one championship under his belt, though he would like to win more.  Each driver began to dominate the sport in the season after winning the championship. They both clinched their second successive titles before the seasons were finished (unlike their previous year), and in only their fourth full seasons. Both drivers became the youngest ever double world champions at the time, by doing this. , In 2011, Pirelli 's Paul Hembery was impressed when Vettel was the only driver to take the time to visit the factory and talk to the tyre manufacturer to gain a better insight and improve their racing. The "only other driver that asks us a lot of questions" is Michael Schumacher. Hembery "found that interesting. It is like seeing the master and the protégé at work."  , After Schumacher was severely injured in a skiing accident in late 2013, Vettel was on hand to collect a German Millennium-Bambi award for his life achievements, on his behalf, along with Schumacher's long-term manager Sabine Kehm a year later.   Vettel also made an emotional speech commemorating Schumacher's achievements in the sport. The two of them had got to know each other well from racing together in Formula One and in the Race of Champions and are to date the only German Formula One title winners. , In 2014, Vettel cited Schumacher as one of his inspirations in becoming a Ferrari driver from 2015 saying; "When I was a kid, Michael Schumacher in the red car was my greatest idol and now it's an incredible honour to finally get the chance to drive a Ferrari."  In his second race with Ferrari, Vettel became a race winner for the team. This was interestingly enough at the age of 27, exactly the same age as Schumacher winning his first race with the team. , Red Bull Racing sponsor Infiniti released a Sebastian Vettel edition of the Infiniti FX SUV for 2012. It features increased engine power, revised bodywork and lower suspension than the standard model.  , Vettel was named Rookie of the year at the annual Autosport Awards in 2008. In 2009, Vettel was awarded the Lorenzo Bandini Trophy , for achievements in the 2008 season. In the year 2010, he was voted German Sportspersonality of the Year (Sportler des Jahres). In the same year, he won the International Racing Driver category at the Autosport Awards for the first time, and has since won this award for three successive years (2010–2013). In January 2012, Vettel was honoured with the illustrious Grands Prix de l'Academie des Sports 2011 for being the "Double consecutive F1 World Champion at the age of twenty four — winner of eleven Grands Prix out of nineteen", and in the following month, he was further honoured with the highest sports award in Germany, the Silberne Lorbeerblatt  – Silver Laurel Leaf – in recognition of his multiple world titles and his exemplary character.  He was also voted F1 driver of the year in 2009,  2011  and 2013  by the F1 team principals for the annual secret poll, initiated by Autosport magazine, while being voted runner-up in 2010 and 2012. He additionally won the DHL Fastest Lap Award in 2009, 2012 and 2013. He became European Sportsperson of the Year by Pap in consecutive years  (2012  and 2013  ) and also by UEPS in 2010.  In 2014, he was named Sportsman of the year at the Laureus World Sports Award held in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia .  , * Season in progress. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position, races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position, races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; Races in italics indicate fastest lap) , Vettel holds the following Formula One records :  Kimi-Matias Räikkönen ( Finnish pronunciation:  [ˈkimi ˈmɑtiɑs ˈræikːønen] ; born 17 October 1979), nicknamed " The Ice Man ",  is a Finnish racing driver currently driving for Ferrari in Formula One . , After nine seasons racing in Formula One, in which he won the 2007 Formula One World Drivers' Championship , he competed in the World Rally Championship in 2010 and 2011. In 2012, he returned to Formula One , driving for Lotus and continued to drive for Lotus in 2013. On 11 September 2013, Ferrari announced their signing of Räikkönen on a two-year contract, beginning in the 2014 season .  , Räikkönen entered Formula One as a regular driver for Sauber-Petronas in 2001 . Having previously only raced in very junior open-wheel categories, he was given his Super Licence from the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) after a performance delivery promise by his team boss, Peter Sauber .  He joined McLaren Mercedes in 2002 , and became a title contender by finishing runner-up in the 2003 and 2005 championships to Michael Schumacher and Fernando Alonso , respectively. Räikkönen's 2002, 2004 and 2006 seasons were plagued by severe unreliability from his McLaren cars. , Räikkönen switched to Ferrari in 2007, becoming the highest-paid driver in motor sport with an estimated wage of $51 million per year.  His move to Ferrari saw him secure his first Formula One World Drivers' Championship, beating McLaren drivers Lewis Hamilton and Fernando Alonso by one point, as well as becoming one of the very few drivers to win in their first season with Ferrari. In 2008, he equalled the record for fastest laps in a season for the second time. However, with Ferrari's desire to get Fernando Alonso in the team with his Santander sponsorship, Räikkönen left the sport and Scuderia Ferrari F1 Team in 2009. Räikkönen then went into WRC to drive a Citroën C4 WRC for the Citroën Junior Team in the World Rally Championship for 2010. Along with rallying, Räikkönen also competed in NASCAR ,  and made his debut for Kyle Busch Motorsports in the Camping World Truck Series . Räikkönen made his return to F1 when he signed a 2-year deal with Lotus starting with the 2012 Formula One season . In his comeback season, he won the 2012 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix . His consistent performances allowed him to end the season 3rd in the Drivers' Championship. , In 2008 , Räikkönen was among the two Formula One drivers who made it into Forbes magazine's The Celebrity 100 list, the other being Fernando Alonso . He was 36th on the magazine's The Celebrity 100 list of 2008, and 41st the previous year.  On the same list, as of 2008, he is listed as the 26th highest-paid celebrity overall and the 5th highest-paid sportsman behind Tiger Woods , David Beckham , Michael Jordan and Phil Mickelson . In 2009 , Räikkönen was listed as the 2nd highest-paid athlete in the world, behind Woods.  , , , Räikkönen was born in Espoo . He had a long line of success in karting from the age of ten. His first race outside Finland was in Monaco when he was 15 years old. During the race, the steering wheel broke, but he continued, informing his mechanic by frantically waving the steering wheel in the air on the home straight. Räikkönen's next Monaco race was also memorable; he was thrown on the wrong side of the safety fence in a first lap collision but continued driving until running out of road. Undeterred, he lifted his kart back onto the track and continued to race. His mechanic thought Räikkönen had retired, but he eventually caught up with the other competitors and finished third.  In 1998 he was 1st in the Nordic Championship at Varna in Norway. In 1999, Räikkönen placed second in the European Formula Super A championship for the Dutch PDB Racing Team – run by 1980 world champion Peter de Bruijn – utilising a Gillard chassis. He also competed in the Formula Ford Euro Cup. By the age of twenty, he had won the British Formula Renault winter series of 1999, winning the first four races of the year. In 2000, he won seven out of ten events in the Formula Renault UK Championship . Combined, over these two series of Formula Renault, he won 13 out of 23 events – a 56% win rate. , On the basis of these results, Peter Sauber gave the Finn a test with the Sauber Formula One team in September 2000 at the Mugello Circuit .  After further tests in Jerez and Barcelona , Sauber signed Räikkönen for the 2001 season. However, some critics (including FIA president Max Mosley ) voiced concerns over granting an F1 Super Licence to such an inexperienced driver; Räikkönen had only 23 car races to his credit. He was nevertheless granted his license and scored a championship point in his debut at the 2001 Australian Grand Prix . Reportedly, Räikkönen was asleep 30 minutes before the race.  , Räikkönen had a solid debut year, achieving four points-scoring finishes and eight finishes in the top eight. Completing the year with 9 points, Räikkönen, along with teammate Nick Heidfeld , helped Sauber to what was then its best result of fourth place in the constructors' championship. , Räikkönen, long linked to Sauber's engine supplier Ferrari, instead sufficiently impressed McLaren to earn a race seat in Ron Dennis 's team for 2002 , taking the seat left vacant by double- world champion , mentor and fellow Finn Mika Häkkinen . , Räikkönen scored a third-place podium finish in his first race with McLaren, the 2002 Australian Grand Prix . Although McLaren suffered many engine failures in 2002, Räikkönen scored 24 points and four podiums, and held his own against teammate David Coulthard . Räikkönen came close to winning his first Grand Prix in France but went off track at the Adelaide hairpin with a handful of laps to go, because of oil from the blown engine of Allan McNish 's Toyota on the circuit.  He finished the race second. He finished the season in sixth place, one place behind his team mate. Together they achieved a solid third place for McLaren in the constructors' championship. , At the season-opening Australian Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified 15th in the spare car. In the race he took the lead before being caught speeding in the pitlane, caused by a software glitch in the car's electronic system. Räikkönen held off Michael Schumacher to finish 3rd. In Malaysia , Räikkönen won his first race  after starting from 7th on the grid. During the next round in Brazil , Räikkönen was declared the winner after the race was stopped on lap 55. According to the rules the winner is decided by the race order as of two laps before the race stopped, i.e. lap 53. However a week later, evidence emerged that Giancarlo Fisichella was on lap 56 when the race stopped, therefore the winner was decided by the order at lap 54. This granted the win to Fisichella, with Räikkönen 2nd. , As other teams improved their cars, McLaren, who were still using the 2002 chassis, began to falter in terms of race speed. However, Räikkönen finished 2nd at Imola . At the Spanish Grand Prix , Räikkönen made a mistake in qualifying and had to start from the back of the grid. At the start of the race, he collided with Antônio Pizzonia , who was stuck on his grid position owing to a launch control problem, causing Räikkönen to retire from the race. , The next few races came down more to strategy rather than speed. While having engine problems, Räikkönen successfully defended 2nd position from Rubens Barrichello in Austria . He came extremely close to winning in Monaco , but lost by less than a second to Juan Pablo Montoya . Starting from the pitlane in Canada after he went off track during qualifying with understeer, Räikkönen finished 6th, more than a minute adrift of race winner Michael Schumacher. , At the European Grand Prix , Räikkönen took pole, and controlled the race from the start until his engine failed on lap 25. Title rival Michael Schumacher finished 5th taking 4 points advantage from Räikkönen. Räikkönen finished 4th in France behind Schumacher but finished one point ahead of him with a 3rd-place finish at the British Grand Prix . Räikkönen failed to finish the German Grand Prix after being involved in an accident at the first corner with Ralf Schumacher and Rubens Barrichello. Räikkönen finished 2nd at the next race, the Hungarian Grand Prix . , Before the Italian Grand Prix , the FIA were tipped-off by rivals Ferrari about an illegality in the Michelin tyre's tread width. [ citation needed ] Michelin were forced to bring in narrower tyres and it seemed as if they had lost the advantage they had been enjoying over Bridgestone all season. McLaren also announced that they would see out the season with the old MP4-17D chassis and would not bring out the MP4-18 as had been planned. Räikkönen eventually finished 4th in the race, losing five championship points to race winner Michael Schumacher. , Räikkönen took pole at the United States Grand Prix , but Michael Schumacher won the race with Räikkönen finishing 2nd. With one race to go, Schumacher only needed one point to win the championship. Räikkönen would need to win the next race with Schumacher not scoring any points. After qualifying 8th in Japan , Räikkönen finished 2nd while Michael Schumacher just slipped into the points to win his 6th World Championship. Montoya's retirement during the race also meant that Räikkönen finished 2nd in the championship, just two points behind Schumacher. The team also narrowly lost second place in the constructors' championship, finishing third, two points behind runners-up Williams , and 12 points behind Ferrari. Mathematically, Williams or McLaren could have won the championship at the very last race. The 2003 season was one of the closest in recent years. , The 2004 season began with Räikkönen only claiming a single point in the first seven races. His McLaren, especially the Mercedes engine, suffered repeated breakdowns, allowing him to complete just two of the first seven events. After seven rounds Räikkönen had only one point to Michael Schumacher's 60. In Canada , Räikkönen made 5 pit-stops but was classified 5th since the Williams-BMWs and the two Toyotas were disqualified. At the United States Grand Prix , Räikkönen finished 6th. , At the French Grand Prix , McLaren rolled out the new MP4-19B. Räikkönen finished 7th behind his team-mate, David Coulthard. At Silverstone , Räikkönen took pole and went on to finish second behind Michael Schumacher. Following on from this encouraging display, the McLarens qualified on the 2nd row of the grid in Germany . Both cars got off to a good start, however Räikkönen lost his rear wing on lap 13 of the race while following race leader Michael Schumacher. He retired again from the Hungarian Grand Prix after starting from 10th place on the grid, again on lap 13. At the Belgian Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified 10th, but took the lead on lap 11 and held onto it to take McLaren's only win of the season. He also took the fastest lap. The next weekend at Monza , Räikkönen again retired on lap 13, this time owing to electrical problems. At the next race in China , he finished 3rd, only 1.4 seconds behind race winner Rubens Barrichello. , At the Japanese Grand Prix , Räikkönen was shunted by Felipe Massa on the first lap of the race, which caused him handling problems. He later managed to make up some ground: he finished 6th, 2.5 seconds behind Alonso. At the last race of the season, the Brazilian Grand Prix , he overtook pole sitter Barrichello, even before they had reached Curva De Sol. Räikkönen later battled Montoya for the lead and finished 1 second behind him in 2nd. Räikkönen ended the year seventh, with 45 points, only one behind sixth placed Jarno Trulli , and four podiums. , Despite the disappointment of the 2004 season, Räikkönen was still seen as one of the rising stars of the sport, along with BAR's Button, Renault's Alonso and 2005 McLaren teammate Montoya. Many pundits predicted 2005 to be filled with great on-track battles from a resurgent team. He was also referred to by Ross Brawn and Jean Todt as a driver whom Ferrari might consider in the future. In early November 2004, Räikkönen announced his intention to create a racing team with his manager Steve Robertson , to be entitled Räikkönen Robertson Racing (otherwise known as "Double R"), which would compete in Formula Three in 2005. , Räikkönen's start to the 2005 season season was less than perfect. The car was reported to be too soft on its Michelin tyres, with the result that it was not generating enough heat to post competitive qualifying times.  The best qualifying position that a McLaren driver could manage in the first 3 races was 6th. Räikkönen compounded this by stalling on the grid of the first race of the season, the Australian Grand Prix , and ending the race with just a point. He looked set for a podium in Malaysia until a faulty tyre valve failed and dropped him out of the points. Bahrain saw him achieve his first podium of the season with a third place behind Renault's Alonso and the Toyota of Jarno Trulli . , Räikkönen then achieved three consecutive poles in San Marino , Spain , and a win after a safety car strategy call by Neil Martin at Monaco . An almost certain win was denied at Imola after a driveshaft failure, but he won the other two races, putting him within 22 points of leader Alonso. He registered strong, comfortable wins at Barcelona, beating Alonso, and at Monte Carlo, never dropping his lead in both races. At the European Grand Prix , Räikkönen flat-spotted his right front tyre while lapping Jacques Villeneuve . The resultant vibrations caused his suspension to fail while he led on the final lap, sending him into the tyre wall and handing a further ten points to his rival Alonso. Changing a tyre would have given him a relatively safe third place. However, tyre changes were only allowed in 2005 in cases where a "punctured or damaged tyre" could be changed for "clear and genuine safety reasons"  and there was no precedent for whether the stewards would consider a flat-spotted tyre dangerous enough. This incident, in part, resulted in a rules clarification allowing teams to change a flat-spotted tyre without punishment.  , Alonso's first major mistake of the 2005 season handed the Canadian Grand Prix to Räikkönen. The following weekend saw all the Michelin teams, including McLaren, withdraw from the United States Grand Prix for safety reasons. At the French Grand Prix , Räikkönen suffered a ten-place grid-penalty following the replacement of his new specification Mercedes Benz engine which failed in Friday practice. Räikkönen, putting in what Ron Dennis called his best ever qualifying lap,  qualified 3rd (demoted to 13th) with a significant fuel load. He finished 2nd behind Fernando Alonso. A week later at the British Grand Prix , Räikkönen suffered another Mercedes engine failure due to an oil leak; his 2nd-place qualifying place became 12th. He claimed 3rd place in the race. , In Germany , Räikkönen was comfortably in the lead having dominated all weekend, but suffered a hydraulics failure, handing victory and a further 10 points to Alonso. It was his third retirement while leading a race during the season. On all three occasions, it was championship rival Alonso who took advantage to win. Significantly, at the opening of the Hungarian Grand Prix , though saying he was very comfortable at McLaren, Räikkönen raised the possibility that he might leave McLaren when his contract expired in 2006 if reliability issues were not solved.  He told a news conference, "We need to work in a better way just to make sure that the car is very reliable." [ citation needed ] However he went on to take the chequered flag with a convincing victory over Michael Schumacher, albeit after McLaren teammate Montoya retired with driveshaft failure while leading. , Räikkönen won the Hungarian Grand Prix from the most handicapped qualifying position, having had to do his qualifying run first on the notoriously dusty and dirty track because of his early retirement a week earlier at Hockenheim. No other driver had previously managed this feat. Räikkönen then became the first ever winner of the Turkish Grand Prix . Two weeks later at the Italian Grand Prix , Räikkönen's pole position was taken from him as he received another 10-position grid penalty for an engine change. It would emerge that he had 5 laps of fuel more than teammate Montoya and 6 more than Alonso during qualifying yet still managed to outpace them. [ citation needed ] During the race, Räikkönen was forced to take an extra stop when his left-rear tyre delaminated, which dropped him down to 12th. He recovered, but spun his car after pushing too hard while chasing Giancarlo Fisichella . He eventually finished fourth. , He went on to win for the second year in a row in Belgium at Spa-Francorchamps . The following race, the Brazilian Grand Prix , saw Alonso clinch the Drivers' Championship after finishing third behind Montoya and Räikkönen. In the penultimate race of the year , at the Suzuka Circuit in Japan, Räikkönen took his 7th victory of the season after starting 17th on the grid (as rain, and an engine failure for Räikkönen, had mixed up the qualifying grid). The win was secured when he overtook Renault driver Fisichella (who had started third on the grid, and had led most of the race) on the final lap – which Formula One journalist Peter Windsor thought the most impressive move of the race.  , Räikkönen received the F1 Racing "Driver of the Year" accolade,  and the Autosport "International Racing Driver of the Year" award.  , In Bahrain , Räikkönen suffered electronic problems during Friday practice and a spectacular rear suspension breakage during the first qualifying session, which forced him back to 22nd place on the grid. Nevertheless he drove through the field, ending third behind Alonso and Michael Schumacher. In Malaysia , Räikkönen was hit from behind by Red Bull Racing 's Christian Klien on the first lap. The impact caused a left rear suspension failure resulting in Räikkönen retiring from the race. , Having started the year clearly behind Renault, McLaren improved in Australia , where Räikkönen finished second after flat spotting a tyre and losing a wing end-plate, which caused him to fall off the pace somewhat around the midpoint of the race. Chasing down Alonso during the final stages of the race, he set the fastest lap of the race on the final lap, finishing only 1.8 seconds behind the Spaniard. At the San Marino Grand Prix , a bad choice of strategy and a mistake from Räikkönen in qualifying (8th) saw the McLarens get caught in traffic in the early part of the race allowing Michael Schumacher and Alonso to get away at the front. Räikkönen eventually finished 5th, with team mate Montoya ahead in 3rd place. McLaren team boss Ron Dennis blamed what he deemed to be Räikkönen's poor performance for the team's failure to finish in the top two in the race.  , At the Spanish Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified 9th. However, he managed to get up to 5th place on the first lap of the race. He retained this position for most of the race, finishing in 5th place. A few days after the Spanish Grand Prix, he admitted that he had no chance of winning the 2006 Championship.  In Monaco , Räikkönen qualified third. During the race he got up to 2nd and kept pace with Alonso, however he retired during a safety car period after a failed heat shield led to a wiring loom inside the car catching fire. After the retirement he was seen on live TV walking along the Monaco sidewalks with his helmet still on to the harbour and climbing aboard a yacht. , The British Grand Prix at Silverstone saw Räikkönen qualify second behind Alonso and in front of Michael Schumacher. The running order was Alonso, Räikkönen, Schumacher until the second set of pitstops where Räikkönen was demoted to third by Schumacher, a position he held until the end of the race. In Canada , Räikkönen achieved another podium. In the United States Grand Prix , his teammate punted him out in an expensive seven car accident. The French Grand Prix saw Räikkönen qualify his car in sixth. His teammate was now former test driver Pedro de la Rosa in place of Montoya. Räikkönen ended the race in fifth. In Germany , Räikkönen qualified on pole. After a battle with Jenson Button , he finished the race for the first time in his career, ending in third place. Another pole came in Hungary , but he collided with Vitantonio Liuzzi after 25 laps, causing his fourth retirement of the season. , A first turn incident with Scott Speed at the Turkish Grand Prix led to an exploded tyre and suspension damage. After a tyre change, Räikkönen's race ended halfway into the next lap when he crashed into the barrier at turn 4 because of a loss of rear grip. Räikkönen qualified on pole for the Italian Grand Prix by 2 thousandths of a second from Michael Schumacher. He led the early part of the race until the first pitstops where he was passed by Schumacher. He stayed in second place for the rest of the race. After the race, Schumacher announced that he would retire at the end of the season. Later, Ferrari announced that he would be replaced in the 2007 season by Räikkönen.  , The Chinese Grand Prix saw another retirement for Räikkönen due to throttle problems. His last two Grands Prix, in Japan and Brazil , did lead to 2 finishes, but he missed the podium on both occasions. Räikkönen ended his time at McLaren-Mercedes with a fifth place in the World Drivers' Championship, with McLaren placing third in the World Constructors' Championship at the end of a winless year. , Räikkönen's British Formula Three Championship team Räikkönen Robertson Racing claimed their first major success, with British driver Mike Conway winning the 2006 British F3 International Series title and the prestigious Macau Grand Prix . , After the 2006 Italian Grand Prix , Ferrari announced that Räikkönen had signed a three-year contract with Scuderia Ferrari for the 2007–2009 seasons. Räikkönen said after the move that he was very happy with this change of events but wished McLaren the best of luck in the future. He became the teammate to Brazilian Felipe Massa , who had been driving for Ferrari since 2006. Following the retirement of Michael Schumacher and his new deal with Ferrari, Räikkönen was estimated to be the world's highest-salaried star in any team sport, with a base salary reportedly worth $51 million annually.  Other individuals may have made more from prize money, such as golfers, but no-one earned a higher base salary. , Räikkönen started the season in Australia by taking pole position, setting the fastest lap, and becoming the first driver since Nigel Mansell in 1989 to win his first Grand Prix with Ferrari. , At the Malaysian Grand Prix , Räikkönen was passed by Lewis Hamilton at the start and remained behind him for the rest of the race, finishing third. In Bahrain , Räikkönen started from third but was passed by McLaren driver Fernando Alonso. He eventually regained 3rd position from Alonso and finished the race 3rd. At the Spanish Grand Prix , Räikkönen retired after only 10 laps with an electrical problem. This took him down to fourth position in the Championship, behind team-mate Felipe Massa. At the Monaco Grand Prix , Räikkönen struck a barrier in qualifying and broke his right front suspension. He started 16th and finished 8th. , In Canada , Räikkönen qualified fourth and finished fifth, Räikkönen's team-mate Massa was disqualified.  At the United States Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified fourth, finished fourth and recorded fastest lap of the race. With ten races in the season left, Räikkönen was 26 points behind leader Lewis Hamilton in the Drivers' Championship. , In France , Räikkönen qualified third, but overtook Hamilton at the first corner of the race. He subsequently ran second, behind teammate Massa, for much of the Grand Prix, but overtook the Brazilian during the pit stops and took his second victory of the season. This was the 11th victory of his Formula One career and Ferrari's first 1–2 win of the 2007 season.  At the British Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified in second place, just missing the pole by running wide in the last corner. In the race, he again took the lead through pit stops, first overtaking Lewis Hamilton midway through the race and then putting in fast laps as Fernando Alonso pitted for the second time in the closing stages to pass him. Räikkönen led to the end of the race.  , At the European Grand Prix , Räikkönen captured his second pole position of the season but retired from the race, run in heavy rain, with a problem with the hydraulics of the car. In Hungary , Räikkönen qualified his car in fourth place, but started from third after Fernando Alonso was penalised. In the race he overtook Nick Heidfeld at the start and pressured Hamilton until the end, but had to settle for second, being 0.7s behind Hamilton. He set the fastest lap time on the last lap of the race, commenting after the race: "I was so bored behind Hamilton, I wanted to see how quick I could have been." In Turkey , Räikkönen missed pole position after making a mistake in the final sector of his fast lap, which left him third on the grid. On race day, he overtook Hamilton in the first corner and took second place, which he kept to the end of the race. , At Monza 's third practice session, Räikkönen crashed into the tyre wall before entering the Ascari chicane. He qualified in fifth place, and raced in the Ferrari reserve car while suffering from a neck problem. The Ferrari team employed an unusual one-stop strategy, which left him third after Hamilton passed him late in the race on fresh tyres.  At Spa-Francorchamps , Räikkönen's favourite circuit,  he secured pole position again and took his fourth victory of the season. Massa finished second, Alonso third and Hamilton fourth. This was also Räikkönen's third consecutive Spa win, which placed him among six other drivers with three or more Spa wins. , At the Fuji Speedway in Japan , the only new track on the 2007 calendar, Räikkönen qualified in third position, while Hamilton took pole and Alonso second. In an extremely wet race, which saw the first 19 laps run behind the safety car , both Räikkönen and teammate Massa were badly affected by having to change to extreme wet tyres during the early stages, because the FIA's tyre-rule notification arrived late at Ferrari.  Towards the end of the race, Räikkönen moved through the field to third place, but could not pass his fellow countryman Heikki Kovalainen for second. , At the Chinese Grand Prix in Shanghai , Räikkönen dominated the whole weekend with fastest laps in the free-practice sessions. In qualifying, Hamilton took pole position with a lighter fuel load, while Räikkönen qualified second and Massa third. There was light rainfall at the beginning of the race which prompted the cars to start on intermediate tyres. After the first round of pit stops Hamilton lost grip as his tyres suffered graining, and Räikkönen overtook him. Hamilton retired after sliding into a gravel trap in the pit lane. Räikkönen took his fifth win of the season, that revived his title hopes before the last race of the season. This was also the 200th race win and 600th podium in Ferrari's Formula One history. Räikkönen moved to seven and three points behind Hamilton and Alonso in the Drivers' Championship, respectively, going into the last race in Brazil, the first three-way title battle in the final race of the season since 1986 . , Räikkönen took the 2007 Formula One Drivers' title with victory in the Brazilian Grand Prix at Interlagos , in an incident-packed race. Massa had taken pole, followed by Hamilton, Räikkönen, and Alonso. At the start of the race Räikkönen passed Hamilton on the outside and lined up behind Massa. Alonso shortly afterwards passed Hamilton, who fell progressively down the order. Räikkönen eventually overtook Massa, who was already eliminated from contention for the Driver's Championship in the Japanese Grand Prix. Massa's strategy for the second round of pit stops ensured Räikkönen kept the lead. Räikkönen went on to take the chequered flag , which handed him the crown by a single point from Hamilton and Alonso. Championship leader Hamilton eventually finished the race in seventh place, while defending champion Alonso managed third. , While Räikkönen had only one point more than Alonso and Hamilton at the end of the season, he had the most victories (six compared to four by each McLaren driver).  , Räikkönen's Drivers' Championship was briefly put into doubt when race stewards began an investigation after identifying possible fuel irregularities in the cars of Nico Rosberg , Robert Kubica and Nick Heidfeld following post-race inspection. Their disqualification and a race reclassification would have seen Hamilton lifted from seventh to fourth in the race result.    However the race stewards decided that no sanctions would be given, meaning the results would stand.  McLaren appealed against the decision,  however the FIA Court of Appeal rejected their appeal on 16 November 2007 thus confirming Räikkönen as the champion.  , After a disappointing first race for Ferrari in Australia where Räikkönen eventually finished eighth after starting 15th on the grid owing to a mechanical problem in qualifying, he won his first race of the 2008 season at the Malaysian Grand Prix , finishing ahead of Robert Kubica and Heikki Kovalainen . His victory in Kuala Lumpur came on the fifth anniversary of his maiden victory at the same track. In Bahrain , Räikkönen qualified in fourth on the grid. He moved up to second place by the third lap and finished in that position, behind his team-mate Felipe Massa . He also secured the lead in the championship. , In Spain , Räikkönen took the 15th pole of his career and his first of the 2008 season. He managed to take his second race win of the season and the fastest lap of the race. Räikkönen overtook Mika Häkkinen in the list of total number of fastest laps and also in terms of podium finishes, making him the highest-ranked Finnish driver in these statistics. , At the Turkish Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified in fourth place. Despite damaging his front wing in the early stages after a collision with fellow Finn Heikki Kovalainen, Räikkönen was still able to set the fastest lap and finish in third place. , In Monaco , Räikkönen qualified in second behind teammate Felipe Massa. Räikkönen stayed second behind Massa until he was given a drive-through penalty for an infringement by the team on his car and dropped down to sixth. He was set for fifth until an incident with Adrian Sutil , when Räikkönen lost control on the damp track after exiting the tunnel, and hit Sutil's car in the rear. Räikkönen's car was not badly damaged and he was able to finish in ninth after replacing his front wing, also setting the fastest lap in the process.  After the race, Mike Gascoyne , the Chief Technology Officer of Force India announced they were filing official protests with the stewards over the incident, demanding a ban for Räikkönen.  However, the stewards decided not to penalise him. , In Canada , Räikkönen qualified third. In the race, he set the fastest lap during the first stint while catching up with Robert Kubica who was in second place. The safety car was deployed when Adrian Sutil's car broke down in a dangerous position. Both he and Kubica jumped ahead of race leader Lewis Hamilton when they pitted during the safety car period. As there was a red light at the end of the pitlane, Räikkönen and Kubica stopped alongside each other and waited for the signal to allow them back onto the circuit. Hamilton failed to notice the red light and hit the rear of Räikkönen's Ferrari, eliminating both cars. , Räikkönen went on to take his 16th pole position in France , which was the 200th pole for Scuderia Ferrari.  Räikkönen dominated the race as he set the fastest lap and had a six second lead until a bank exhaust failure some halfway through the race reduced his engine's power. He gave up the lead to his teammate Massa, but was far enough ahead of Toyota's Jarno Trulli , to secure second place and eight points.  , Räikkönen qualified third at the British Grand Prix .  Before the race, Räikkönen pushed noted photographer Paul-Henri Cahier to the ground as he lined up a close-up shot. Räikkönen's manager Steve Robertson claimed the driver was provoked by Cahier touching him with his lens and standing on his belongings, but Cahier disputed this version of events.   The race was in wet conditions and Räikkönen stayed third at the first corner behind Hamilton and Kovalainen. He kept pace and got up to second when Kovalainen spun. He then chased after Hamilton, and set the fastest lap as he drew up directly behind the McLaren. During the first pitstop, Ferrari did not change the intermediates on his car in the hope that the track would become dry. However, the track was hit by another shower, and Räikkönen rapidly lost pace, and dropped down to sixth before finally pitting for new tyres. He finished fourth, a lap down. , At the German Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified sixth and dropped down a place at the first corner. He was running fifth when the safety car came out after a crash involving Timo Glock . His teammate Felipe Massa was ahead of him on the track, and as a result, Räikkönen was forced to wait behind Massa when the pitlane opened. This dropped him down to 12th, but he eventually finished in sixth. , At the Hungarian Grand Prix , Räikkönen again qualified sixth. He lost a position to Alonso at the beginning of the race but managed to finish third owing to Hamilton's tyre puncture, passing Alonso during the pitstops and Massa's retirement after an engine failure. , During the European Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified fourth and lost a place at the start to Kovalainen. He stayed fifth until the second round of pitstops when he exited before the fuel hose was properly disengaged from his car and left one of the mechanics with a fractured toe.  Two laps later, he suffered a similar engine failure to Massa in the previous race; a connecting rod in his engine broke and he was forced to retire.  , At the Belgian Grand Prix , Räikkönen again qualified fourth. He passed Kovalainen and Massa at the start to be second, and took the lead from Hamilton on the second lap. He pulled away, setting the fastest lap of the race and built a five second gap. He looked set to win but owing to a late-race rain shower, Hamilton closed right up to him and tried to pass him at the final chicane with two laps to go. Hamilton cut the chicane and rejoined ahead of Räikkönen. He let Räikkönen take the place back. Hamilton then repassed him for the lead. The two battled on for the rest of the lap, with Räikkönen retaking the lead when the two stumbled upon spinning backmarker Nico Rosberg , forcing Hamilton onto the grass. Räikkönen spun at the next corner and fell behind Hamilton again. While trying to catch up, he lost control of the car, smashed into a wall and retired. , At the Italian Grand Prix , which was held in extremely wet conditions, Räikkönen qualified 14th. He stayed in 14th position for the first two stints. He climbed to ninth position in the third and last stint in which he also set the fastest lap of the race. , In Singapore , the first night event in Formula One history, Räikkönen qualified third behind Massa and Hamilton. He remained in this position for most of the early laps. On lap 14, Nelson Piquet, Jr. 's Renault hit the wall at turn 17 and the safety car was deployed. Both Ferrari drivers pitted during the safety car period, with Räikkönen queued behind Massa in a busy pitlane. Ferrari released Massa before the fuel hose was disconnected from the car, which compromised Räikkönen who rejoined in 16th. Räikkönen managed to climb to fifth place, but on lap 57, while attacking Timo Glock , he hit the wall after pushing too hard at turn 10 and retired.   He set the fastest lap of the race as his tenth of the season. This equalled Michael Schumacher's 2004 record of ten fastest laps in a Formula One season.  , At the Japanese Grand Prix at the Fuji Speedway circuit, Räikkönen qualified second on the grid, behind Hamilton, and took the lead at the start. Closing up to turn 1, Hamilton attempted to pass on the inside, braked late and went wide,  forcing Räikkönen to also go wide.  Räikkönen lost out heavily and went down to seventh position. He gained places after a collision between Hamilton and Massa, Kovalainen's hydraulic failure and an overtaking manoeuvre on Jarno Trulli. He eventually finished third, behind Renault's Fernando Alonso and BMW Sauber's Robert Kubica.  This result meant that it was impossible for Räikkönen to retain his Drivers' Championship title for the second year.  , In China , Räikkönen qualified second behind Hamilton. At the start he stayed second with his teammate and now Ferrari's world championship contender, Massa, behind him in third place. However, with Räikkönen out of the running for the world championship he let Massa through into second place on lap 49, to help the latter gain two additional points in his pursuit of Hamilton in the world championship race.  , At the Brazilian Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified third and finished third, behind Massa and Alonso. As Kubica failed to score, he finished third in the championship. , Räikkönen also won the DHL Fastest Lap Award for the second year in a row. He set 10 fastest laps throughout the season. , At the start of the 2009 season in the Australian Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified in ninth place. The pace of the Ferraris and McLarens in particular was significantly slower than the likes of the Brawn , Red Bull and other outfits who were struggling to keep up with them in 2008. In the race, both Ferraris were running well before Räikkönen hit a barrier. He was forced to make an unscheduled pit stop on lap 43 and subsequently retired with differential failure. , In Malaysia , Räikkönen topped the time sheet in the second practice session.  Räikkönen was ninth in qualifying. Sebastian Vettel and Rubens Barrichello 's ten and five-place penalties respectively meant that he was promoted to 7th. During the race, rain was predicted and the team took a gamble to change Räikkönen to full wet tyres while the track was still dry. The gamble did not pay off, and Räikkönen fell down the field. By the time the race was stopped on the 33rd lap due to torrential rain, Räikkönen was classified 14th. , Räikkönen's season did not get any better in Round 3 in China where he qualified in 8th place. In the wet race, he and Lewis Hamilton had duels early on, with Hamilton having to overtake Räikkönen three times to get the job done. Räikkönen complained about power loss from the engine from near the start and of a lack of grip after his one and only pit-stop. This meant that he could only finish 10th. In Bahrain , Räikkönen secured 6th place and Ferrari's first points of the year, but was disappointed by the team's performance. He retired from the Spanish Grand Prix due to a hydraulics failure after qualifying from the back of the grid. , At the Monaco Grand Prix , Räikkönen secured 2nd place in qualifying, Ferrari and Räikkönen's best qualifying of the year so far. He admitted that he was still disappointed because he missed out on pole narrowly to the Brawn of Jenson Button . Räikkönen lost out to Rubens Barrichello at the start of the race, dropping back to 3rd. He maintained this position until the chequered flag. , At the Turkish Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified sixth, but damaged his front wing on the first lap. He could only finish ninth, out of the points. At the British Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified ninth but a good start saw him move up to fifth. However, he dropped to eighth during the pit stops because of traffic and remained until the finish. , At the German Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified ninth after a damp session. In the race however he collided with the Force India of Adrian Sutil like in the previous year in Monte Carlo , as the German was emerging from a pitstop. While Sutil managed to recover back to the pits to replace a nosecone, Räikkönen was forced to retire a few laps later with radiator damage as a result of the incident. , At the Hungarian Grand Prix , Räikkönen took his and Ferrari's best finish of the season in 2nd, after making a great start from 7th. After the first corner Räikkönen was in 4th place, but when Fernando Alonso retired after his early first stop, Räikkönen moved up to 3rd. Räikkönen overtook Webber for 2nd place at the first round of pit stops when Räikkönen and Webber pitted on the same lap. Räikkönen had a clean pit-stop, whereas Webber had a problem and was released into the path of the Ferrari. Räikkönen and Webber avoided collision, and Webber had to slot in behind Räikkönen. On his second pit stop, Räikkönen had a problem with an exhaust pipe. However, having built quite a gap between him and Webber, he held on to take 2nd place. , At the European Grand Prix , he qualified 6th. He jumped to 4th at the start of the race. He then moved up to 3rd after the second pit stops jumping Heikki Kovalainen for the last podium place, and stayed in that position until the end of the race, claiming his second straight podium. , At the Belgian Grand Prix , he qualified 6th, jumping to 2nd at the start of the race. After the safety car was removed, he passed Giancarlo Fisichella to take the race lead and led all the way to the chequered flag for his first race win in 25 races, and the first and only one for Ferrari in 2009.  It was Räikkönen's fourth victory in the last five Belgian Grands Prix, bolstering his reputation as "The King of Spa".  , Räikkönen continued his good form at the Italian Grand Prix , qualifying and finishing 3rd, after Lewis Hamilton's last-lap crash. It was his 4th consecutive podium finish. , Singapore saw the end of a great run for Räikkönen where he only finished 10th after qualifying 12th. , In Japan , Räikkönen came very close to another podium, finishing fourth. He had qualified fifth and was not able to gain a place at the start of the race, as he was on hard tyres. He put on softs for his second stint and was able to close in on Nick Heidfeld at about three quarters of a second every lap. He overtook the German after the BMW Sauber came out of the pits. However, an accident involving Toro Rosso 's Jaime Alguersuari brought out the safety car on lap 44, which kept the field stationary for a further five laps. Despite Lewis Hamilton suffering a KERS failure, Räikkönen's car did not have the grip necessary and was not able to overtake the third-placed McLaren at the restart. He went wide in an attempt to overtake Hamilton but recovered without losing a further place to Nico Rosberg . , In Brazil , Räikkönen qualified 5th and finished 6th. His race was already ruined when Mark Webber swerved into his path, damaging the Ferrari's front wing. At the pit stop while having the wing changed, fuel dripping from the fuel rig stuck on Kovalainen's car caused the Ferrari to briefly burst in flames as the two cars were exiting their pit stops. For the rest of the race even with his eyes burning from fuel, Räikkönen used his strategy to move up the order and eventually finished in sixth place. , In Abu Dhabi , the last race of the season, Räikkönen qualified 11th. He lost a place at the start of the race to Kamui Kobayashi . Räikkönen finished 12th, out of the points. , Near the end of the 2009 season, Ferrari announced that Räikkönen would be leaving the team, despite having a contract to race for them in 2010 . He would be replaced by Fernando Alonso.  He was expected to return to McLaren alongside Lewis Hamilton but negotiations with the team failed. Räikkönen was linked to Mercedes GP but the team eventually signed Michael Schumacher and Nico Rosberg . Toyota F1 , before it pulled out of Formula One, offered Räikkönen a driving contract to replace Timo Glock in 2010. The BBC reported that he refused the contract owing to wanting to drive a race-winning car, not to mention Toyota not offering a large enough salary.  , On 17 November 2009, his manager Steve Robertson confirmed that Räikkönen would not drive in Formula One in the 2010 season.  But during 2010 itself, rumours emerged once again about another possible Räikkönen comeback this time with the Renault team in 2011 . This followed a resurgence in Renault's form, and the fact that the Russian Vitaly Petrov had yet to be re-signed like team-mate Robert Kubica . Team principal Éric Boullier claimed he had been contacted by Räikkönen in connection with a possible return, but said that although he was flattered by Räikkönen's alleged display of interest: , However Räikkönen angrily shot down the suggestion that he would race, claiming that Renault had simply used his name for "their own marketing purposes".   , Räikkönen made his initial rally debut at the Arctic Lapland Rally , which ran from 23 to 24 January 2009, driving a Tommi Mäkinen Racing-prepared Abarth Grande Punto S2000. He finished in 13th place.  Räikkönen made his WRC debut in the 2009 Rally Finland , which took place between 30 July and 2 August, starting just four days after his 2nd-place finish in the Hungarian Grand Prix .  He was running third in group N and 15th overall before crashing out in Väärinmaja, last stage of Saturday.  , On 4 December 2009, it was announced that Räikkönen would altogether shift from Formula 1 to the World Rally Championship for the 2010 season as a full-time driver for the Citroën Junior Team ,  and that he would be driving a Red Bull -sponsored Citroën C4 WRC with his co-driver, Kaj Lindström . As members of the team, the pair were scheduled to participate in 12 of 13 rallies in the 2010 WRC calendar, the exception being Rally New Zealand. , On 3 April 2010, Räikkönen scored his first WRC points when he finished eighth in the Jordan Rally . Consequently, he became the second driver after Carlos Reutemann to score championship points in both Formula One and the World Rally Championship.  In the next WRC event, the Rally of Turkey , Räikkönen improved his best result with a fifth-place finish, 6m 44.3s off the winner, Sébastien Loeb . This result saw him beat established and more experienced drivers in the field. , In the 2010 Rally Finland , the retired four-time World Rally Champion Juha Kankkunen entered the race and said that if Räikkönen cannot beat him then he might as well go back to Formula One. Kankkunen finished eighth and Räikkönen 25th due to car trouble. He finished seventh in the Rallye Deutschland , his second ever asphalt rally, while notching up his first ever career stage win, the last stage of the rally. , On 18 September 2010, Räikkönen achieved his first rally win when he participated in the Rallye Vosgien 2010 in France. He won all six stages in the asphalt rally.  Räikkönen could not start in the Rally Catalunya because he crashed during the shakedown, leaving the roll cage damaged, and the team did not have enough time to repair it. Subsequently Räikkönen decided to not take part in the rally at all, even when he could by super rally rules. The reason was stated to be saving the car.  , Räikkönen entered the 2011 World Rally Championship season under his own team, ICE 1 Racing . He drove a Citroën DS3 WRC .  He finished eighth in the opening round, Rally Sweden . Skipping the Mexico event, he next competed in Rally Portugal and finished seventh. , It was reported on 29 March 2011 that Räikkönen would try his hand at NASCAR starting in the Camping World Truck Series sometime in the summer of 2011 with an eye on also running in the Nationwide and Sprint Cup Series .  On 2 April Räikkönen signed a deal with Toyota team Kyle Busch Motorsports to run a limited schedule in the Truck Series. An earlier report claimed that Räikkönen's entry was related with former Richard Petty Motorsports executive Foster Gillett, whom Räikkönen announced would be a partner in his Ice 1 Racing team;.  , On 20 May, Räikkönen debuted in the North Carolina Education Lottery 200 at Charlotte Motor Speedway with a strong finish of 15th, though he started the day with tough practice sessions and qualified only at 31 out of 37 cars. His race craft was well received by team crew chief Rick Ren and his teammate Kyle Busch. Räikkönen went on to race in the Nationwide Series at the same track on 28 May driving for Joe Nemechek and NEMCO Motorsports . He finished 27th after having debris stuck under his car and getting a penalty for speeding in the pitlane.  , In the week before the 2011 Singapore Grand Prix , several news sources reported that Räikkönen was eyeing a return to Formula One for the 2012 season with Williams F1 after he was spotted at the team's headquarters in Grove, Oxfordshire .  Several reports went so far as to suggest that Räikkönen had entered preliminary negotiations with the team.   However, the team refused to comment on the reports, with driver Rubens Barrichello dismissing them as rumour and speculation.  On 29 November 2011, it was announced that Räikkönen would be returning to Formula 1 in 2012, signing a two-year contract with Lotus .  , Räikkönen began the season by qualifying 17th for the Australian Grand Prix after making a mistake on his last flying lap. However he recovered his weekend during the race the next day, as he made a good start to move up to twelfth, before making it into the top ten. He took three places on the last lap of the race, to finish in seventh place.  In the dry qualifying session for the 2012 Malaysian Grand Prix Räikkönen qualified in 5th place. He started the race from 10th place because of an unscheduled gearbox change. In the race he had the opportunity to try Pirelli's wet-weather tyres for the first time. He finished the race in 5th despite being inexperienced with Pirelli's wet-weather tyres compared to most of the other drivers. At the 2012 Chinese Grand Prix he was 14th after running 2nd before being overtaken by 10 cars in the space of one lap, due to a mistake in tyre strategy, expecting the Pirelli tyres to last longer in the last stint. At the 2012 Bahrain Grand Prix he finished second starting from 11th position on the grid. It was his first podium and his best finish of this comeback. Three weeks later, Räikkönen finished third at the 2012 Spanish Grand Prix , after having qualified in fifth place, which had been promoted to fourth as a result of a penalty given to Lewis Hamilton . In Monaco Räikkönen qualified in 8th but finished one place lower in 9th place. For the 2012 Canadian Grand Prix Räikkönen again had a bad qualifying session finishing 12th. He was able to finish 8th in the race taking, as he stated, "important championship points". In the 2012 European Grand Prix at the Valencia Street Circuit he finished second behind Fernando Alonso .  In the 2012 British Grand Prix he finished fifth, after having qualified in sixth place. During qualifying for the 2012 German Grand Prix , Räikkönen had good pace in Q1 with the harder set of tyres and was looking good for a potential shot at a higher grid place. At the start of Q2 the rain was already heavy meaning that Räikkönen lost the advantage he had in dry conditions. In the wet Q3 session he qualified in 10th place. Good pace in dry conditions from the qualifying session was proven in the race as Räikkönen succeeded to finish 4th, and eventually gaining the last podium spot after Sebastian Vettel was penalised for an illegal overtaking manoeuvre. For the 2012 Hungarian Grand Prix Räikkönen qualified 5th. He lost fifth place at the start to Fernando Alonso due to a KERS issue on his E20 car. He succeeded in gaining a position over Alonso during the first round of pit-stops, and later did the same to Button and Vettel during the second round. He finished the race in 2nd place, just one second behind the race winner Lewis Hamilton . , After a 5-week long summer break, the much speculated introduction of a 'Drag Reduction Device' by Lotus F1 team has been delayed due to bad weather conditions on Friday for the 2012 Belgian Grand Prix . That didn't stop Räikkönen from qualifying fourth. He went on to finish 3rd behind Jenson Button and Sebastian Vettel . A week later at 2012 Italian Grand Prix at Monza, Räikkönen qualified 7th and finished the race in 5th. At the 2012 Singapore Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified 12th as his Lotus E20 couldn't match the pace of the top 3 teams and eventually finished 6th. At 2012 Japanese Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified 8th after spinning at his final attempt in Q3 and finished 6th after being passed by McLaren's Lewis Hamilton after the second round of pit stops. Next in 2012 Korean Grand Prix saw the introduction of a coanda style exhaust system and several other minor updates to the Lotus E20 which, Lotus team boss Eric Boullier regraded as a new era  in his team's development race. Räikkönen eventually qualified 5th and finished the race in 5th after an impressive battle with McLaren's Lewis Hamilton which ended in Räikkönen's favour. Even though he was 48 points behind the championship leader Sebastian Vettel after 16 rounds of the 2012 Formula One season , Räikkönen said he takes inspiration from the 2007 Formula One season  which he won at the last round in 2007 Brazilian Grand Prix after McLaren's Lewis Hamilton suffered gearbox problems. At the 2012 Indian Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified in 7th place. He couldn't manage to improve his starting position because of a lack of top speed on the straights. After this race, the contract with Lotus F1 was extended for 2013 due to the fact that the terms of options in the contract have been met. On 4 November 2012, Räikkönen won his first race for the Lotus F1 team at the 2012 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix after a good start from fourth saw him take Pastor Maldonado and Mark Webber at the first corner. He was unable to match the pace of Hamilton , but a mechanical issue retired the McLaren and allowed Räikkönen to win the race, despite pressure from the Ferrari of Fernando Alonso in the closing stages. Although he was now mathematically eliminated from the championship as a result of Vettel finishing 3rd, the name Lotus celebrated its first win since the 1987 Detroit Grand Prix which was won by Ayrton Senna . Still third, Räikkönen was 16 points clear of Lewis Hamilton in the championship. But after Hamilton's pole position at the concluding race of 2012 , Räikkönen would have to finish at least fifth in the race if Hamilton were to win. He qualified only ninth. On lap 52, Räikkönen, who had been in-and-out of the points frequently, made a mistake and went off the track and tried to use an escape road to re-enter the track rather than drive over the grass. The road was blocked and he was forced to turn back. He lost numerous places and found himself behind a Caterham and a Marussia . He skidded again to be lapped, but re-claimed the lost places and with a retirement from Hamilton, finished the race in 10th and claimed his 3rd place in the standings, with a 1-point contribution to the tally. He ended the season 71 points behind Fernando Alonso and 74 points behind champion Sebastian Vettel . , On 3 December 2012 through a poll in a French auto racing website, www.toileF1.com Räikkönen was named the driver of the year. In second place was Fernando Alonso.  , On 29 October 2012, Lotus confirmed that Räikkönen would be racing with the team in 2013, after several weeks of speculation that Räikkönen had several other options for 2013, including other forms of motorsport. , On 17 March 2013 he won the first race of the season, the Australian Grand Prix despite starting from seventh, thanks to a two-stop strategy. He also set the fastest lap of the race on lap 56. He described the victory as one of his easiest wins.  Räikkönen qualified seventh in Malaysia , but was demoted three places for impeding Nico Rosberg during qualifying.  He finished the race seventh, behind team-mate Grosjean, after damaging his car at the start.  , At the Chinese Grand Prix , he qualified and finished second, despite having to regain the two places he lost at the start and having damaged the front of his car while battling Sergio Pérez for position. In the Bahrain Grand Prix he qualified ninth, but was promoted to eighth after Lewis Hamilton received a five-place grid penalty for an unscheduled gearbox change. He finished the race second ahead of his team-mate Romain Grosjean , with Sebastian Vettel winning the race. The podium of the race was exactly same as in 2012 . At the Spanish Grand Prix , Räikkönen started fourth and finished second thanks to a three-stop strategy. At the next race in Monaco , Räikkönen started fifth but an aggressive overtake by Pérez gave him a puncture and dropped him out of the points until a last-ditch attempt on the final lap where he overtook Esteban Gutiérrez , Valtteri Bottas and Nico Hülkenberg to gain tenth place. In the process, it continued his streak of 23 consecutive points finishes, one shy of the record of 24 set by Michael Schumacher across three seasons between 2001 and 2003. , With his Lotus struggling during the Canadian Grand Prix , Räikkönen finished ninth. On 30 June 2013 at the British Grand Prix , Räikkönen finished in the points for the 25th consecutive race, breaking Schumacher's record. He finished fifth but believed second place could have been possible had he pitted during the safety car period. The result kept him in third place in the championship. At the German Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified fourth and finished second, only a second behind Vettel with the help of the safety car. Räikkönen struggled in qualifying for the Hungarian Grand Prix , unable to capitalise on strong times earlier in the weekend. He qualified sixth but finished second – for the fifth time at the circuit – holding off a last minute charge from Vettel with fresher tyres. The result promoted him to second in the Drivers' Championship, one point ahead of Fernando Alonso and 38 points behind championship leader, Vettel. , At the Belgian Grand Prix , Räikkönen finished fastest in Q2 but struggled during the wetter final session, qualifying 8th behind his teammate. Although Räikkönen did gain some places in the race, he was eventually forced to retire with a brake related issue on lap 27, ending the Finn's record-breaking run – also numbering 27 – of consecutive points finishes. The DNF also ended his chances of beating the most consecutive race finishes – a record held by Nick Heidfeld at 41 finishes – Räikkönen recorded 38. , He failed to score again at the Italian Grand Prix after losing his front wing at the start. He managed to make his way up the order, but was unable to pass Jenson Button for a point scoring position. On the week following the race, it was announced that Räikkönen would not continue with Lotus for the 2014 season , and instead join Fernando Alonso at Ferrari.   Before the following Singapore Grand Prix , it was revealed that Räikkönen had not been paid salary by Lotus for the whole season, meaning there were several million euros of outstanding fees. Räikkönen publicly cited this as the reason for leaving Lotus for Ferrari.   , In the Singapore GP, Räikkönen had recurring back problems during the practice sessions, which at first put his participation in the race in question.  He qualified only 13th, but was still able to return to the podium, clawing to the third place partly thanks to a safety car intervention in the middle of the race.  At the Japanese Grand Prix , he qualified 9th and finished 5th. , Two weeks later, at the Indian Grand Prix , Räikkönen qualified 6th. In the race, he opted for a one-stop tyre strategy, placing him in the second place at the closing stages of the Grand Prix. However, during the final few laps, his pace was more than a second slower than those chasing him, including Nico Rosberg and Räikkönen's Lotus teammate Romain Grosjean. With eight laps remaining, Rosberg was able to take over Räikkönen for second. Grosjean then caught up with Räikkönen on the fourth last lap, but was not immediately able to pass him.  At this point, the Lotus trackside operations director Alan Permane had a heated radio exchange with Räikkönen, commanding him to move out of the way. The radio conversation was widely noted in the press, raising questions about the health of his relationship with the team.   Räikkönen eventually finished 7th after stopping for new tyres with only two laps to go.  , In the following Abu Dhabi Grand Prix questions about Räikkönen's relationship with his team were further fueled by his absence from the usual Thursday media events. Räikkönen had reportedly only left his home at the last moment to make it to the Grand Prix after considering not racing at all in the event.  On Friday, Räikkönen then publicly threatened that he would not continue to race with Lotus in the remaining two Grands Prix of the season after Abu Dhabi unless the salary dispute was resolved.  In the Saturday's qualifying, Räikkönen made it to 5th, but was demoted to the 22nd and last grid spot due to his E21 car failing a post-qualifying floor deflection test.  In the race, he immediately made contact with Giedo van der Garde 's Caterham in the first corner of the first lap and broke his Lotus's right front suspension, forcing Räikkönen to retire on the first lap for the first time since the 2006 United States Grand Prix . Following the race, it was announced that Lotus and Räikkönen had reached a provisional agreement on the salary dispute that would see Räikkönen race for the team during the remainder of the season  as the investment group Quantum Motorsports said that they had concluded long-running negotiations with Lotus for acquisition of a share in the team, providing the team with financial security.  , However, a week before the following United States Grand Prix , it was announced that Räikkönen would nevertheless miss the rest of the season, having elected to have back surgery for the problems that had troubled him in the Singapore Grand Prix.  For the remaining two Grands Prix, Räikkönen would be replaced at Lotus by fellow Finn Heikki Kovalainen .  , On 11 September 2013, it was confirmed that Räikkönen had agreed a 2-year deal to return to Ferrari (where he won the championship in 2007 ), starting from 2014 .   He revealed that it was for monetary reasons that he left Lotus.   , A rule change for the 2014 season allowed drivers to pick a unique car number that they will use for their entire F1 career. Räikkönen however decided to retain the #7 car number he used for Lotus during the 2013 season as "It's the number I already had last year and I saw no reason to change it".  , After a mostly disappointing first half of the season, Räikkönen had a return to form at the first race back after the summer break in Belgium , where a good strategy and a series of fastest laps earned him fourth place, his best result of the season. It was also the first time Räikkönen had finished higher in a race than Alonso in 2014. Räikkönen ended the 2014 season a career-low 12th in the drivers' championship, and for the first time since his rookie year, did not finish on the podium.  He also had a big shunt in the British Grand Prix ; an impact that measured 47  g 0 (460 m/s 2 ).  Except some pain in the ribs , Räikkönen had no other bruises and was declared fit for the following race. , Räikkönen remained with Ferrari for the 2015 season, partnering former world champion Sebastian Vettel after Alonso announced his departure from the Scuderia. , Räikkönen had to retire from the first race of the season in Australia due to a loose wheel following a pitstop.  Following that mishap, he recovered to finish fourth both in Malaysia and China . Another pit issue befell Räikkönen during practice for the Bahrain Grand Prix as he was reprimanded for exiting the pitlane in a 'potentially dangerous manner' by the stewards, having swerved around a standing car in an undesignated area. However, he escaped a possible grid penalty.  During the same weekend, his manager Steve Robertson suggested that Räikkönen was heading towards a contract extension with Ferrari.  That would contradict previous suggestions from Räikkönen himself that he would 'probably' retire at the end of his Ferrari contract, and that 2015 would be his last season.  Courtesy of a considerate tyre strategy by the Ferrari team, at the Bahrain Grand Prix , Räikkönen finished second after gaining that position late in the race and starting from fourth on the grid.  In the process, Räikkönen recorded his first podium since the 2013 Korean Grand Prix for Lotus, and the first in his second spell with Ferrari – his most recent Ferrari podium was a third place finish at the 2009 Italian Grand Prix . Räikkönen said that he was hopeful in winning races in the near future after the team's strong recovery relative to 2014 . He also commented that, both the engine and downforce had been significantly improved and that the car handled much more to his liking.  In a post-race interview, Ferrari team boss, Maurizio Arrivabene , described this result as a sign that Räikkönen "is back" and that he "showed what a race animal he is", also implying that if he had a few more race laps available, Räikkönen would have challenged Hamilton for the race win.  In the Austrian Grand Prix he was involved in a big crash with Fernando Alonso which left Alonso's McLaren on top of Räikkönen's Ferrari. However both left unscathed. , Räikkönen has an older brother, Rami Räikkönen, who is a rally driver and a national junior-class champion. Rami also competes in the Finnish Formula 3 Championship; their father Matti was a road builder. , Räikkönen met Finnish model and former Miss Scandinavia 2001, Jenni Dahlman in 2002. The couple married on 31 July 2004, living between Switzerland and Finland. They separated in February 2013, and divorced in 2014.  Räikkönen is currently engaged to fitness and underwear model Minna-Mari "Minttu" Virtanen.  On 28 January 2015, Virtanen gave birth to the couple's first child, a boy, Robin Räikkönen. , Räikkönen's hobbies include snowboarding and ice hockey .  During his spare time he can often be seen watching his hometown ice hockey team Espoo Blues play. He has also competed in several different kinds of motorsport events. In March 2007, while his Formula One rivals were in Australia preparing for the season opener, Räikkönen competed in a snowmobile race in Finland under the pseudonym " James Hunt ", referring to the 1976 world champion whose "playboy" lifestyle has been compared with Räikkönen's own.  Räikkönen won the Enduro Sprint race by over 20 seconds with his Lynx .  Later in the year, he and two friends entered a powerboat race in the Finnish harbour city of Hanko while wearing gorilla suits. Again, he raced under the name "James Hunt".  They then won a prize for the best-dressed crew.  , In August 2008, it was announced that Räikkönen would appear on a set of Finnish postage stamps. The stamps, which were released to commemorate the Finnish postal service's 370th anniversary, feature images of him racing and on the podium, with the words "F1 World Champion '07 Kimi Räikkönen".  , In 2011, Räikkönen founded his own Motocross World Championship team, Ice 1 Racing .  The team consists of MX1 rider Toni Eriksson and MX2 rider Ludde Söderberg and is managed by seven-time enduro world champion Kari Tiainen . The Ice 1 Racing team also supports six junior riders competing in the Finnish national championship. , It is reported that Räikkönen and Sebastian Vettel are close friends.    The two currently race for the Ferrari team in 2015 .  , Räikkönen is known for his dislike of giving media interviews, and frequently answers questions in a blunt and monosyllabic manner. A notable incident occurred in the build-up to the 2006 Brazilian Grand Prix when then-ITV pundit Martin Brundle asked Räikkönen why he did not bother to watch a ceremony in which legendary footballer Pelé presented Michael Schumacher with a lifetime achievement award. Räikkönen replied, on live TV: "I was having a shit."  , He has a self-appointed moniker, " Iceman ", with several layers of meaning; apart from its association with famously-cold Finland, he is widely considered to have a cool temperament under pressure and also an 'icy' persona with most other drivers, team members and the media. He appears to be aware of the perception, making no apologies for it stating that he is "not here to try to please people. I'm here to do my best"  and, in a post-race interview after winning the 2012 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , "Last time you guys was (sic) giving me shit because I didn't really smile enough [after a win]".  Apart from his on-track driving, off-track instances demonstrating this calm demeanour include being asleep 30 minutes before his first Formula One race  and eating an ice cream during the temporarily-suspended 2009 Malaysian Grand Prix .  , His website also refers to him as the " Flying Finn ".  , Known to be frustrated by anything that prevents him simply racing, he is relatively outspoken in his criticism of politics and off-circuit drama in sport. In a rare feature interview in the middle of the 2013 season, Räikkönen is quoted saying "sometimes in Formula 1 there is politics, and the shit there is stupid".  In the same article, Lotus team principal Éric Boullier described Räikkönen as someone "doing pretty much whatever he wants". , Although his terse one-liners are well known, he is also known for having a black sense of humour. On the 20th lap of the 2012 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , Räikkönen had just taken the lead from Lewis Hamilton and his race engineer Simon Rennie advised that Fernando Alonso was five seconds behind and he would be kept informed of Alonso's pace; Räikkönen replied "Just leave me alone, I know what I'm doing!". Later in the same race he admonished his team again, when being told to manage the tyre degradation: "Yes, yes, yes, I'm doing that all the time. You don't have to remind me every 10 seconds!".  The first quote attracted significant press coverage, and Räikkönen made no attempt to apologise in the post-race interview. He did, however, order 500 T-shirts with the quote printed on the front and gave one to each member of the race team.  The quote is also featured on his official website.  , Räikkönen's helmet, designed by UffeDesigns, manufactured by Arai (2001–2006, 2012), Bell (2013, 2015) and Schuberth (2007–2009, 2014), slightly changed during the years. The trident insignia was painted in white during his time racing for Sauber and McLaren until 2005, and red from 2006 with McLaren and during his time with Ferrari. His helmet has also always featured a V design running on the circle top (representing a flying bird) and the inscription "Iceman". In his debut race, his helmet was predominantly blue with white and silver details. When he joined McLaren in 2002 the design was left intact, only making the top circle all blue (rather than blue and silver) and with some black details on the chin area. In 2003–2005 his helmet was blue and white with some red and silver parts, red details were added on the symbol that was added to the M design. In 2006 his helmet was the same, only changing the blue to black with red and white lines on it. When racing for Ferrari Räikkönen's helmet changed radically: it was white with the middle part black and red with tribal designs and a black circle with the design in the top. In 2008, black paisley motifs were added in the chin. He retained this design in some rallies, although the helmet style was significantly different for this discipline. , In WRC and NASCAR he used a blue Stilo helmet with Red Bull's logo, silver and white accents (to resemble Red Bull's can design and Räikkönen's Sauber helmet lines), the symbol and the trident insignia (in white and red) and with the inscription "Iceman". , Upon his return to Formula One, he sported a black helmet with a white diagonal line crossing from each side until the angles of the visor and a thicker red diagonal line beneath the white line and a red number 9 in a corner of the white line (to allude to his car number), a white circle in the top with black edged designs (similar to horns) on the upper front. The design on the top became black and in the back of the helmet there was the inscription "Iceman" written in red letters. From the Australian Grand Prix, there were more details added on top of the helmet. For the Monaco Grand Prix , he wore a replica of the 1976 James Hunt helmet. The manufacturer of his helmet for the 2012 season was Arai. , In 2013, the helmet was similar to the previous season, but with the inverted colors (except for the red), the horn design in the upper front became red and on the sides there was a big red number 7 superimposed on the black section of the helmet.  Unlike the 2012 model, the 2013 model is manufactured by Bell . , Upon his return to Ferrari in 2014, the base color became a vibrant red, with white diagonal lines crossing from each side. A large number 7 was placed within the red, similar to that of 2013's. The "Iceman" inscription at the rear of the helmet was yellow, along with some of detailing around the top of the helmet. The manufacturer of his helmet for the 2014 season was officially Schuberth, yet it is believed that he continued using a Bell model for racing purposes. , In 2015, his helmet reverted back to a white base, similar to the model he used back in 2007. The rear of the helmet reverted back to black, with a red band above the "Iceman" inscription. The Insignia along the top was surrounded by red and grey detailing, and the large number 7 was bordered in grey. As with 2014, Räikkönen continued to race with a Bell model rather than Ferrari's official supplier Schuberth. , * Season in progress. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , * Season in progress. , ( key ) ( Bold  – Pole position awarded by qualifying time. Italics  – Pole position earned by points standings or practice time. * – Most laps led. ) , 1 Ineligible for series championship points.  Valtteri Bottas (born 28 August 1989) is a Finnish racing driver currently competing in Formula One with Williams . He currently resides in Monaco . , , , Born in Nastola , Finland , Bottas finished eighth in the 2005 Karting World Cup for the P.D.B. Racing Team, using Gillard chassis and Parilla engines. , Bottas won both the 2008 Formula Renault Eurocup and the 2008 Formula Renault Northern European Cup . In doing so, he repeated the feat of Filipe Albuquerque , who won both the NEC and Eurocup in the same season, in 2006. , Bottas would have also won the 2007 Formula Renault UK Winter Series , had he been holding an MSA -registered licence for the championship. This did however not stop him from competing, and he won three out of the four races in the championship. , He moved up into the Formula Three Euroseries for the 2009 season , competing for reigning champions ART Grand Prix . Despite not winning a race, Bottas set two pole positions on his way to third in the championship, edging out Alexander Sims at the final race. In June 2009, Bottas won the 2009 Masters of Formula 3 , also claiming the pole position and setting the fastest lap of the race. By winning the event again in 2010 , he became the first driver to win the F3 Masters title for the second time.  , In 2010 Bottas was assigned test driver for the Williams Formula One team  and would continue as such for the 2011 and 2012 (where he took part in 15 Friday Free Practice sessions)  seasons, during which he also contested the GP3 Series , remaining with F3 squad ART.  After a tough start to the season, he claimed a win in each of the last four race weekends and secured the title by winning the penultimate race ahead of his team-mate James Calado .  , Bottas returned to racing in 2013, as he was confirmed as teammate to Pastor Maldonado at Williams for the 2013 season on 28 November 2012.  On 8 June 2013, Bottas qualified in 3rd position at the Canadian Grand Prix behind Sebastian Vettel (1st), and Lewis Hamilton (2nd).  He scored his first points finish at the United States Grand Prix by finishing 8th. This result allowed Bottas to finish ahead of Maldonado in the Drivers' Championship. , On 11 November 2013 Bottas was confirmed to continue with Williams in 2014 alongside Felipe Massa, who was signed from Ferrari to replace Pastor Maldonado.  At the first race of the 2014 season in Australia , Bottas qualified 10th and finished 6th, after recovering from a crash earlier in the race. He was later promoted to 5th after Daniel Ricciardo was disqualified from 2nd position.  At the Austrian Grand Prix , Bottas qualified 2nd, his best grid position in Formula One, and achieved his first podium in the sport, finishing third behind Nico Rosberg (1st) and Lewis Hamilton (2nd).  Despite qualifying 14th on the grid at the British Grand Prix , Bottas charged through the field to finish second, following Rosberg's retirement from the race, thereby achieving his second consecutive career podium. At the German Grand Prix , he qualified second and ended the race in the same position despite a late challenge from Hamilton. After achieving three more podiums in Belgium , Russia (where he set his first fastest lap of a race) and Abu Dhabi (part of Williams' first double podium since the 2005 Monaco Grand Prix ), Bottas finished 4th overall in the championship, beating the likes of former world champions Sebastian Vettel and Fernando Alonso . , In September 2014, it was announced that Bottas and Massa would retain their drives with Williams for the 2015 season.  At the opening race of the season in Australia , Bottas qualified sixth for the race, but injured his back during qualifying. He was taken to The Alfred Hospital for precautionary checks,  where he was diagnosed with soft tissue damage to his lower back, and was not medically cleared to race.  , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , † Driver did not finish the race, but was classified as he completed over 90% of the race distance. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicates fastest lap) , * Season in progress.  Felipe Massa ( Portuguese pronunciation:  [fiˈlipi ˈmasɐ] , born 25 April 1981) is a Brazilian Formula One racing driver who currently drives for Williams . Massa started his career in go-karting from the age of eight continuing in national and regional championships for seven years. He moved into Formula Chevrolet and claimed the championship. He moved in Italian Formula Renault in 2000 and won the title along with the European championship. Massa went into Euro Formula 3000 taking the championship. , Massa started his Formula One career with Sauber before joining Scuderia Ferrari as a test driver for 2003. He returned to Sauber for 2004 and 2005 before rejoining Ferrari where he won two races in 2006 including his home Grand Prix becoming the first Brazilian since Ayrton Senna to win the Brazilian Grand Prix. Massa won three races in 2007, finishing 4th in the Drivers' Championship. He finished second in the 2008 Drivers' World Championship after a long title battle with Lewis Hamilton . At the 2009 Hungarian Grand Prix , Massa was injured by a suspension spring off the Brawn GP car of Rubens Barrichello . Massa was forced to miss the rest of the season but returned in 2010. Massa suffered a dip in form in 2011 scoring no podiums but consistently scoring points. Massa contributed to Ferrari's Constructors Championships in 2007 and 2008 and was under contract to race for the team until the end of the 2013 season.  On 10 September 2013, he confirmed he would be leaving Ferrari at the end of the 2013 season. On 11 November, it was announced that Massa would replace Pastor Maldonado alongside Valtteri Bottas at Williams from 2014.  , , , Born in São Paulo , Massa is a Brazilian whose grandfather emigrated from Cerignola , Italy. , Massa began karting when he was 8 years old, finishing fourth in his first season. He continued in national and international championships for 7 years, and in 1998 moved into Formula Chevrolet, finishing the Brazilian championship in fifth place. During the following season, he won 3 of the 10 races and claimed the championship. In 2000, he moved to Europe to compete in the Italian Formula Renault series, winning both the Italian and the European Formula Renault championships that year. He could have moved to Formula Three , but instead chose the Euro Formula 3000 , where he won 6 of the 8 races and the championship. He was then offered a Formula 1 test with the Sauber team, who signed him for 2002. He also drove for Alfa Romeo in the European Touring Car Championship as a guest driver. , In his rookie year in Formula 1, Massa was paired with 1999 International Formula 3000 champion Nick Heidfeld . He proved he was a competitive driver, but made several mistakes, including spinning off the track several times. Nevertheless, Massa scored 4 championship points in his first season, his best result a 5th place at the Spanish Grand Prix at the Circuit de Catalunya . He suffered a one race suspension late in the season, forcing him to miss the United States Grand Prix . Heinz-Harald Frentzen , Sauber's former driver, drove for Massa in his place. Massa returned to the driver's seat for the Japanese Grand Prix , but Sauber confirmed that Frentzen would partner Heidfeld in 2003 , leaving Massa without a race seat. Instead, he spent a year with Sauber's engine suppliers, Ferrari , gaining experience by testing for the championship-winning team. , Sauber then re-signed Massa for the 2004 season . In 2004, he scored 12 of Sauber's 34 points, his best result was a fourth place at the Belgian Grand Prix . Giancarlo Fisichella scored the team's other 22 points. Massa remained at Sauber in 2005 . Though he scored only 11 points, he outpaced his teammate Jacques Villeneuve through most of the season, and beat him in the drivers' championship. After Sauber was taken over by BMW , Massa was released and replaced by his former team-mate Heidfeld. In 2006 , Massa re-joined Ferrari, paired with Michael Schumacher . , Massa started well at Ferrari, qualifying second at the opening race in Bahrain , and coming from 21st position to 5th in Malaysia, beating teammate Michael Schumacher, who had started from 14th. In Bahrain, however, in both Saturday practice and the race, Massa resumed his tendency to spin, narrowly missing Fernando Alonso , the eventual winner of the race. At the Australian GP he crashed his Ferrari in qualifying, then collided with Christian Klien and Nico Rosberg at the first corner of the race. Nevertheless, Massa scored his first career podium at the Nürburgring , finishing third behind Michael Schumacher and Fernando Alonso. He also set the fastest lap at Barcelona in 2006. Massa had four more podium finishes in 2006, and took his first F1 pole position and his first F1 win at the Turkish Grand Prix at the Istanbul Park circuit.  His future position at Ferrari was secured when Michael Schumacher announced on 10 September 2006, he would retire from F1 at the end of the 2006 season. On 22 October, Massa won his home race at the Brazilian Grand Prix , making it the first time a Brazilian driver had won at Interlagos since Ayrton Senna in 1993. Massa finished the season third with 80 points, behind world champion Fernando Alonso and Ferrari teammate Michael Schumacher .  , Massa topped the time sheets on five occasions and set the fastest lap for four circuits during the 2007 pre-season testing. However, his 2007 season began with problems. At the season opening Australian Grand Prix , he suffered a gearbox problem during qualifying and required an engine change. Massa started the race from 22nd position due to these problems and a 10-grid-slot penalty for the engine change. He employed a one pitstop strategy for the race and finished in sixth place. Massa's problems continued in Malaysia, where despite qualifying on pole position, the McLarens of Fernando Alonso and Lewis Hamilton overtook him at turn one. Massa ran off the track while attempting to overtake Hamilton, and lost two more places, dropping down to fifth place, where he finished the race. However, his season subsequently improved, as he won the Grands Prix of Bahrain and Spain , both from pole position, and finished third in Monaco . The race stewards at the Canadian Grand Prix disqualified Massa for leaving the pit lane while the red light was showing.  After this disqualification, he won one more race at the Turkish Grand Prix ,  and finished on the podium at six more races, including a second-place finish at his home grand prix at the Brazilian Grand Prix. Massa led much of the Brazilian Grand Prix , until yielding the lead to teammate Kimi Räikkönen , thus securing Räikkönen's world championship title. Massa finished the 2007 season ranked fourth in the drivers' standing with 94 points. , In October 2007, Massa extended his contract with Ferrari to the end of 2010.  , Massa endured a terrible first race weekend of his third year at Ferrari . The team, surprisingly, looked off the pace as Massa qualified fourth and his race was even less successful, spinning off at the first corner of the first lap, on lap 26 he collided with David Coulthard and eventually retired due to engine failure. , Things brightened up in Malaysia as he qualified on pole, half a second clear of Räikkönen in P2,  but the race itself did not go as well. Massa led from pole in the first 16 laps but was jumped by Räikkönen in the pitstops. He was still in contention for the victory battle and was chasing Räikkönen until he spun off on lap 31 while in second and retired. , After these two races people began to speculate that Massa had returned to his mistake-prone ways of when he first entered F1, and that he could not handle F1 cars without the help of traction control (which had been outlawed from the start of the 2008 season), but the next race put those thoughts on hold. , Massa went into the Bahrain Grand Prix (where he won in 2007 ) with no points. He dominated the weekend, but Robert Kubica beat him to pole in qualifying. In the start, Massa beat Kubica even before the first corner. Räikkönen soon got up to second but he could not do a repeat of Malaysia. Massa was quicker and easily won by 3 seconds to open up his account.  , In Spain , Massa qualified third behind Räikkönen and Fernando Alonso . He passed Alonso at the start and got up to second behind Räikkönen. He stayed on his teammate's shadow for the whole race, but there was no way he could pass or get ahead in the stops. He had to settle for second. , Massa took pole position at the next round at Turkey . He led from the start, and maintained the lead during the round of pitsops, but was passed by Lewis Hamilton 's three-stopping McLaren at the start of the second stint. Hamilton pulled away, but he did not have the pace to take the lead that was needed to make his third stop and still come out ahead of Massa. Massa was a full 7 seconds up the road by then and took his second win of the season, and his third consecutive at the circuit.  , At Monaco Massa qualified on pole, to his surprise (he had mentioned prior to the weekend that he did not like the circuit) and built up a 15-second lead over Räikkönen in the rain, before that advantage was wiped out by the safety car. Soon Räikkönen was out of contention with a drive-through penalty. After the safety car went, Massa again started pulling away from Robert Kubica, but he ran up an escape road and lost the lead. Massa did jump Kubica in the pitstops but Lewis Hamilton 's one-stopping McLaren was by now way ahead of both of them. During the pitstops, Massa was fueled to the end of the race and was struggling, holding Kubica up. The track dried out and Massa had to pit for dries while Kubica took his second fuel stop at the same time and jumped him. Massa thus finished third behind Hamilton and Kubica. , In the Canadian Grand Prix , Massa qualified down in 6th place. In the race there was a safety car due to an incident involving Adrian Sutil . All drivers pitted, but Massa had to pit twice due to a delay with his fuel rig, which put him down to 17th. Massa then staged a fightback, charging back up to fifth place by the end of the race. Two of Massa's title contenders failed to finish after Hamilton collided with a stationary Räikkönen in the pitlane, allowing Massa to equal Hamilton and jump ahead of Räikkönen in the driver standings. , In the French Grand Prix , Massa qualified 2nd on the grid behind his teammate Räikkönen. Massa stayed some 3 to 4 seconds behind his teammate for the first half of the race. However, Räikkönen had a developing problem in his exhaust system, which allowed Massa to overtake him and win the race. This win gave Massa lead in the championship, 2 points ahead of Robert Kubica, 5 points ahead of Räikkönen and 10 points ahead of Hamilton. Massa was the first Brazilian to lead the championship since Ayrton Senna in the 1993 Formula One season .  , In the British Grand Prix , Massa set the quickest time in 1st practice but immediately crashed. Things did not go any better during the rest of the weekend, as he had his season's worst qualifying down in 9th. In the wet race, while Hamilton dominated and Räikkönen finished fourth, things made a turn for the worse as he spun an embarrassing five times and finished last in 13th, over a lap down behind both his rivals. And so, at the end of the halfway stage of the season, Hamilton, Massa and Räikkönen were deadlocked on 48 points, with Robert Kubica only 2 points behind them. , The tenth round of the season was in Germany . Massa qualified 2nd behind Hamilton. He stayed second and was set to finish there until a crash involving Timo Glock brought out the safety car. Due to a miscommunication, Hamilton stayed out while the others, led by Massa pitted. However, when all the stops were over, Massa was behind Nelson Piquet, Jr. who had already pitted as he was on a one-stopper. Then, when a charging Hamilton came at him in the last 10 laps, Massa could not hold him off and subsequently finished third. After the race, Massa was 4 points behind Hamilton but 3 ahead of Räikkönen. , At the Hungarian Grand Prix , the McLarens who were looking dominant locked out the front row, and the best Massa could get was third. However, at the start itself, Massa passed both Heikki Kovalainen and pole sitter Hamilton on the run down to the first corner. He had the race in control from that point, and built up a five-second lead over Hamilton. When Hamilton suffered a puncture, Massa was left 20 seconds in front and seemed to have victory in the bag, but with 3 laps remaining he suffered an engine failure and retired. , The twelfth round of the season, the European Grand Prix was in Valencia, Spain. Massa took pole position comfortably at this new circuit, and led right from the start. However, during one of his pitstops he was released early and almost touched wheels with Adrian Sutil who was already coming down the pitlane. Massa let Sutil go ahead so it only cost him a second, he won with ease, including setting the fastest lap. After the race, the stewards decided to fine Massa €10,000 for the incident with Sutil, but the victory stood and he was only 6 points behind Hamilton as well as being 7 ahead of Räikkönen. The race was Massa's 100th Grand Prix entry, making him to date the only driver in history to win his 100th GP. , The next race was Belgium , Massa qualified second behind Hamilton. He lost a place at the start to Räikkönen and stayed in third until lap 42 of 44 when Hamilton passed Räikkönen for the lead, just after cutting a chicane. The two had more battles throughout that lap, which resulted in the Finn crashing out, promoting Massa to second, despite the Brazilian dropping 9 seconds on the last lap. Hamilton crossed the line first, but was penalised 25 seconds by the stewards after the race for cutting the chicane, and so the win went to Massa putting him only 2 points behind Hamilton. , At Italy Ferrari's home race, the weekend was wet throughout, and Massa was off form, qualifying only sixth, but he had a great chance to take the championship lead as Hamilton was down in 15th. During the race, Massa got up to third, but dropped back down to sixth after he pitted once more than most others. He finished there, but as Hamilton only finished seventh, there was only a 1-point gap now between them. , Massa took pole position for what was the first ever F1 night race and inaugural Singapore Grand Prix , beating Hamilton's best time by six tenths of a second. He maintained the lead at the start and after 14 laps, was over 5 seconds ahead of Hamilton. However, a crash for Nelson Piquet, Jr. brought out the safety car, bunching up all the cars. It was then time for the first round of stops and during his stop Massa was given the green light to go, but the refueller was still refuelling the car. Massa left with the fuel rig attached and so had to stop at the end of the pitlane. The mechanics ran the whole length of the pitlane and finally removed the rig, but Massa was now last. He was then given a drive-through penalty for an unsafe release, and was 15 seconds behind the rest of the field. His race ruined, he finished 13th and Hamilton who finished 3rd was now 7 points ahead of him. , At the Japanese Grand Prix Massa struggled in qualifying, having to settle for 5th on the grid. Meanwhile, Hamilton, his main rival took pole position.  At the start there was an incident between Hamilton and Räikkönen, dropping the former to sixth. Massa stayed fifth, a place in front of his rival. On the second lap, as Massa was stuck behind the slower car of Jarno Trulli , Hamilton tried to pass him. The result was a collision, with Hamilton spinning down to the back, and Massa dropping down to seventh. He was given a drive-through penalty for the incident, and found himself down in 14th. He made a charge up the order, setting the fastest lap on his way to getting 8th and one point. This became seventh after a controversial 25-second time penalty was issued to Sébastien Bourdais , who was judged by the stewards to have caused a collision with Massa whilst exiting the pitlane.  , At the Chinese Grand Prix the following week Massa and teammate Räikkönen, despite strong performances at Fuji, struggled for pace the entire weekend, a situation which Stefano Domenicali (Ferrari team principal) could not explain.  Massa qualified 3rd behind Räikkönen's Ferrari and title rival Hamilton. Following the pattern of the weekend Massa struggled to keep up with Hamilton, who raced away and maintained a comfortable margin. Whilst he eventually found some speed after the graining period on the medium compound tyres, he was unable to catch Hamilton. As Räikkönen yielded second place to keep Massa's title hopes alive, Hamilton pulled his lead out to 7 points in the Drivers championship. , Massa remained optimistic stating "For sure we are in a difficult position but we know many things can happen in one race"  and "Always when you play at home you usually play better",  as the last two years he finished strongly at Interlagos (a 1st in 2006 and a 2nd in 2007). At the last race of the season, the Brazilian Grand Prix the situation for Ferrari was: Felipe Massa was seven points behind Lewis Hamilton, meaning that Massa had to either finish first or second to win, and Hamilton had to be outside the top 5 – the same position Räikkönen had been in a year earlier, when he won the championship. , Qualifying went well, Massa qualifying on pole, while Räikkönen qualified 3rd, just ahead of Hamilton.  There was a rainshower just before the start of the race, and thus all drivers started on intermediates. Massa maintained the lead, and after 10 laps everyone had to change to drys on a drying track. Although the order was shuffled, Massa still led. He dominated the rest of the race, set the fastest lap and won by 13 seconds even though everyone had to change to intermediates after a late rainshower. Hamilton, meanwhile, struggled for pace. He was lying fourth for most of the race until the late shower, behind Massa, Alonso and Räikkönen. During the late shower, Timo Glock gambled on staying out on drys. He was fourth with Hamilton fifth. With three laps to go, Massa still led with Hamilton 5th. If the race stayed as it was Hamilton would win the Championship. Then Hamilton, having made a mistake, was passed by Sebastian Vettel , demoting him to 6th. Going into the last lap, if the order stayed as it was, then Massa would have been champion. Massa crossed the chequered flag and thought that he had won the championship. Hamilton was still sixth as he came up to the second-to-last corner, but then passed Glock who had just been overtaken by Vettel and who was struggling for grip on his dry tyres, and so this moved him into 5th place. Crossing the line Hamilton won the Drivers title by a just a single point.  If he had tied points with Massa, by virtue of 6 victories to 5 in the season, Massa would have won the title. , Following the 2008 seasons F1.com called Massa "no more the nearly man"  and emphatically stating he is "No more the Ferrari number two, Massa is now a contender".  His maturity was also praised by Ferrari President Luca di Montezemolo , commenting "I can only imagine how painful that moment must have been for him. However, I would like to give him my very special compliments, not only for dominating the running out there on the track in front of his fans, proving he is worthy indeed of the world title, but also for his maturity and sportsmanship off the track. He's a great champion and a great man."  , During the course of the season, Massa had 6 pole positions – at the Malaysian , Turkish , Monaco , European , Singapore and Brazilian Grands Prix. He had 3 fastest laps – at the European , Japanese and Brazilian Grands Prix. He had 6 wins – at the Bahrain , Turkish , French , European , Belgian and the Brazilian Grands Prix. , Felipe Massa gave Ferrari's 2009 challenger – the F60  – its shakedown test at Mugello on 12 January 2009. , Ferrari confirmed that it would equip the F60 with KERS several days before the season opening Australian Grand Prix . Friday practice session did not begin so well for Massa as he recorded the 7th and 10th fastest times. Saturday qualifying fared little better as he lined up 7th (although was promoted to 6th as Glock's Toyota was disqualified). In the race the Ferrari's poor ability to handle its tyres lead to their aggressive race strategy of super soft/medium/medium compounds paying little dividends after the first 6 laps (where the Ferraris moved to the front of the pack). Although Massa managed to stay in the top 3 for the first half of the race, the exceptionally quick graining of the super soft tyres forced him into a 3 stop strategy. Before he was able to complete the race a mechanical problem forced him to retire. , In Malaysia , an error of judgement by Ferrari meant that Massa failed to make it through the first session of qualifying. In an interview to Rede Globo , Massa revealed that he and the team believed that his initial time was quick enough to proceed into Q2, and refrained from recording further times in order to conserve the car's engine. However, this was not the case, and Massa subsequently ended up in 16th for the race.   In the race, Massa was classified as having finished in 9th, just outside of the points-paying positions, after the race was abandoned on the 33rd lap due to torrential rain, poor light, and timing delays. Massa also failed to score in the next two races, retiring from the Chinese Grand Prix with electrical problems, and finishing well outside of the point scoring positions in 14th in Bahrain , due to a KERS problem and damaging his car's front-wing on the first lap. , In Spain , Ferrari arrived with an upgraded car which attempted to fix many of the flaws present in the prior races. With the new aerodynamic parts, Massa managed to qualify in fourth place. He managed to maintain third position for a majority of the race before a computer issue showed the car as having less fuel than it should have, forcing him to conserve fuel in the final 10 laps, allowing Vettel and Alonso to cruise past, only for him to realise that the car had enough fuel for him not to need to conserve, after the race. The much upgraded car showed its pace by setting the third fastest time of the race after the two Brawns and in front of both Red Bull cars. , Monaco was another step in terms of improvement for the car as Massa finished fourth in the race, with fastest race lap. After qualifying a disappointing 8th, Massa produced a mistake free drive to net his first podium position of the season with a 3rd place at the German Grand Prix at the Nürburgring . After making a great start to 4th place, he used his fuel strategy while defending from other drivers and looking after his tyres to take the final podium place. , On 25 July 2009, in the second round of qualifying for the Hungarian Grand Prix , Massa's head, though protected by his driver's helmet, was struck by a suspension spring that had fallen from Rubens Barrichello 's Brawn , on a high-speed part of the track. He subsequently crashed head-on into a tyre barrier. Massa was airlifted to the ÁEK hospital in Budapest , where he underwent surgery in the area surrounding his left eye.  His condition was initially described as "life-threatening but stable",  but improved rapidly. Massa was discharged from hospital the following week and returned to Brazil.  After further tests it was decided Massa needed a titanium plate inserted into his skull to strengthen it for racing. Ferrari consultant and seven-time world champion Michael Schumacher was asked to take over Massa's race seat during his recovery,  but his comeback was prevented by neck injuries sustained during a motorcycle accident earlier in the year.  Ferrari test driver Luca Badoer was confirmed as Massa's substitute for the European and Belgian Grands Prix.  After two races in which Badoer failed to score a single point, on 3 September 2009 Ferrari announced that Massa's place for the rest of the season would instead be taken by Giancarlo Fisichella who had signed a deal to be a Ferrari test driver for 2010 and had driven for Force India throughout the 2009 season.  , As part of his return to Formula One Massa undertook a series of neurological examinations, co-ordinated by the FIA's medical delegate, in Paris on 10 October 2009. The successful completion of these tests led to the announcement by Ferrari that Massa would, from 12 October 2009 be driving a 2007 Formula One car in order to continue re-acclimatising to racing.  He waved the chequered flag at the 2009 Brazilian Grand Prix . , Massa started the 2010 season with a second-place qualifying place, and a second-place finish in Bahrain behind team-mate Fernando Alonso , despite having to save fuel in the last 22 laps. , At the Australian Grand Prix , Massa was appointed a director of the Grand Prix Drivers' Association .  Massa qualified fifth for the race, which was marked by changeable weather conditions and ten non-finishers. He finished third, largely managing to steer clear of the chaos. After the race, Massa commented cheerfully that it had been an unusually good start to the season for him. Third was his best ever finish at Melbourne. After a storming drive to 7th from 21st on the grid in Malaysia , he took the lead in the world championship. However, a disappointing ninth in China meant that he dropped back to sixth in the standings. , Massa qualified 9th in Spain , and finished the race 6th despite contact with Karun Chandhok which damaged his front wing. In Monaco , Massa was very quick during practice and qualified fourth. He got off to a great start and got alongside Robert Kubica , but had to yield the racing line at the first corner and finished the race in fourth, which promoted him to fifth in the championship with 61 points. The next race, the Turkish Grand Prix  – at which Massa has historically excelled – ended for him in a disappointing seventh, although he at least managed to out-qualify team-mate Alonso and beat him in the race. Massa described the race as "boring" ; he spent it battling with the Renaults of Kubica and Vitaly Petrov for the minor points positions. In Canada he qualified 7th and after an excellent start he spun Liuzzi 3 times and from there on had a poor race finishing 15th and a lap down. In Valencia , he qualified 5th, but after Mark Webber and Heikki Kovalainen collided and the safety car came out, he finished 11th and out of the points. In Silverstone , Massa qualified seventh, but on the first lap he developed a puncture after contact in the new section of the circuit. He ended up in a disappointing fifteenth, as the last car on the lead lap. , At the 2010 German Grand Prix Ferrari were investigated for team orders as Massa took the race lead early, ahead of Fernando Alonso in second and Sebastian Vettel close behind in third. During the race these positions were maintained until Massa received instructions from Ferrari engineer Rob Smedley , saying "Fernando is faster than you. Can you confirm you understood that message?". Shortly afterwards, on lap 49, Massa allowed Alonso to take the lead, and consequently to win the race.  Smedley then added after the pass 'Ok mate good lad, stick with him now, sorry.'  The incident strongly suggested that a team order had been made to Massa to let Alonso overtake, and race stewards agreed. Despite team boss Stefano Domenicali's denial,  Ferrari were fined $100,000 for breaking Sporting Regulations and the matter was referred to the FIA World Motor Sport Council .  Massa finished 4th in Hungary and Belgium and third in Italy . In Singapore , he qualified last due to a gearbox issue, but finished the race eighth. Massa collided with Vitantonio Liuzzi on the first lap of the Japanese Grand Prix but finished third in Korea . He finished a disappointing 15th in Brazil , and tenth in Abu Dhabi . Massa ended the season ranked sixth in the Drivers' Championship. , In June, Massa agreed to a contract extension until the end of the 2012 season.  , Massa remained with Scuderia Ferrari in 2011 , and again was partnered with Fernando Alonso . He drove his new car – the Ferrari 150° Italia  – for the first time on 29 January 2011, undertaking a shakedown of the car at the Fiorano Circuit . , At the Australian Grand Prix , Massa endured a poor start to the season at what has traditionally been his bogey race. Qualifying eighth, over 0.6 seconds behind team-mate Alonso, Massa managed to get ahead of Alonso and several other drivers at the start and ran in fifth place for a while, much to the frustration of Jenson Button , who had a much quicker car but was unable to pass him. A lack of pace dropped Massa down the order to an eventual ninth-place finish, which became seventh after the Saubers of Kamui Kobayashi and Sergio Pérez were disqualified. , The Malaysian Grand Prix saw a better performance from Massa, who qualified seventh and showed greatly improved race pace, particularly on the soft Pirelli tyres. Massa again made a fine start to the race and ran ahead of Alonso until his first pit-stop. A problem with a tyre-change cost him time but he finished ahead of Alonso in fifth, after Alonso damaged his front wing against Lewis Hamilton 's right-rear tyre. In China , Massa improved again; at one point looking like challenging for the race win, before settling for sixth as Ferrari's two-stop strategy did not suit the conditions. Despite this, he finished over fifteen seconds ahead of Alonso, and was pleased with his improved race performance.  He finished 11th in Turkey after a slow pit stop, and retired in Spain due to a gearbox fault. In Monaco , Massa made contact with Lewis Hamilton at the hairpin on lap 32, and crashed in the tunnel a few corners later.  While at the Canadian Grand Prix , on the last lap, he overtook Kamui Kobayashi just before the chequered flag to finish in sixth place. Three fifth places followed in Valencia , Silverstone  – after a late-race battle with Hamilton – and at the German Grand Prix where Red Bull's Sebastian Vettel had a faster pit stop when they both pitted together on the penultimate lap, losing Massa fourth place. Massa added a sixth-place finish in Hungary . , Massa out-qualified Alonso for only the second time in 2011 , in Belgium ; but he fell from fourth to eighth in the race. Massa took another sixth-place finish at the Italian Grand Prix , after he was spun round by Webber on lap five. Hamilton made contact with Massa for the third time in 2011, when attempting to overtake him for eighth in the Singapore Grand Prix . Hamilton punctured Massa's right-rear tyre with his front wing, an incident for which Hamilton received a drive-through penalty. This followed an incident in qualifying where Hamilton lunged down Massa's inside, attempting to pass on an out-lap, which led Massa to publicly criticise Hamilton.  Massa also went up to Hamilton in the post-race TV interview area as he was about to start an interview with RTL Television , patted his shoulder, and sarcastically said: "Good job, bro."  It was later reported that during the race Massa's engineer Rob Smedley sent a radio message to Massa stating "Hold Hamilton as much as we can. Destroy his race as much as we can. Come on, boy..."  Hamilton and Massa collided at the next race in Japan , damaging Massa's front wing endplate, but he eventually finished in seventh place. After the race, Massa called for the FIA to take action on Hamilton.  After finishing sixth at the Korean Grand Prix , he crashed in qualifying for the Indian Grand Prix after he broke his suspension on a kerb and then hit the barriers. In the race, he once again collided with Hamilton on the 24th lap of the Indian Grand Prix , for the fifth time this season, this time however with Massa being awarded a drive-through penalty . He retired later after hitting a kerb too hard, the same fate which ended his qualifying session. He rounded off the year with two fifth-place finishes in Abu Dhabi and Brazil . , Despite his disappointing 2011, Massa remained with Ferrari for 2012. At the Australian Grand Prix , Massa qualified 16th – a second behind team-mate Alonso, who qualified twelfth – for his worst qualifying result since the 2010 Singapore Grand Prix ,  and the first time he qualified outside the top ten since the 2010 Japanese Grand Prix . Massa gained six places on the first lap, running as high as eighth in the early stages of the race, but suffered badly from tyre degradation and fell down the order before retiring from the race after a collision with Williams driver Bruno Senna ; both drivers later agreed that it was a racing incident.  In the Malaysian Grand Prix , Massa qualified 12th and finished 15th, 1-minute 37 seconds behind his teammate Fernando Alonso, who won the race. This result put Massa 19th in the Championship, whilst teammate Alonso was leading on 35 points.  Sauber's Sergio Pérez finished 2nd and there has been speculation linking Pérez to Massa's seat.  Massa was thirteenth at the Chinese Grand Prix before he scored his first points of the season with ninth at the Bahrain Grand Prix . In Spain , Massa started sixteenth and finished fifteenth whilst team-mate Alonso started and finished second, he also had a drive-through for ignoring yellow flags. He finished 6th in Monaco , and tenth in Canada , after spinning in the early stages of the race. , He finished 16th in Valencia , after Kobayashi made contact with him at the restart. A great weekend followed in Silverstone , as he qualified 5th and finished 4th, despite Alonso's pole and second place. Massa finished 12th in Hockenheim , where he hit Daniel Ricciardo on the first lap and as a result, removed his own front wing. Massa added a ninth-place finish in Hungary . After qualifying 14th at Spa , Massa finished 5th in the race, earning 10 points and climbing to eleventh position in the driver standings, with the same points as Michael Schumacher. Massa took his best qualifying result of the season so far and got third place grid position at Monza . After a great start he made his way up to second position but finished the race in fourth after being passed by Alonso and Pérez in the closing laps. In Suzuka , Massa qualified 11th, but started 10th due to a gearbox penalty for Nico Hülkenberg. He made a great start after his team mate Alonso retired at the first corner of the first lap, and went on to finish in 2nd position, his first podium since the 2010 Korean Grand Prix . Massa qualified 6th for the 2012 Korean Grand Prix . He maintened 6th position after the first corner, and overtook Räikkönen on the first lap. After a few laps he also made a move on Lewis Hamilton, giving him 4th position. He had great pace throughout, with the possibility to overtake Alonso and even Webber, but because Alonso is fighting for the drivers championship, Massa was told to hold station. On 16 October 2012, Massa signed a 1-year contract with Ferrari. This came as a result of an impressive string of results for the Scuderia, and means that Massa is under contract to race with Ferrari until the end of 2013. In India , Massa qualified 6th and finished 6th, despite having to save fuel and being hounded by Räikkönen the whole race. In Abu Dhabi , Massa qualified 9th but started on the grid in 8th as a result of Vettel's penalty. He ran as high as 7th until he spun when fighting with Mark Webber, but drove well and worked his way up to 7th again. At the US Grand Prix , Massa outqualified team-mate Alonso for only the second time this year. But then Ferrari tactically broke his gearbox seal to move Alonso onto the clean side of the grid. This demoted Massa to 11th but he drove a storming race to finish 4th. At the final race of the season in Brazil , Massa again outqualified team-mate Alonso for the second straight race to start 5th. At the start of the race Massa made his way up into 2nd place, only to fall down to 11th after some bad strategical decisions with the ever changing weather conditions at Interlagos. Then thanks to a safety car, the field bunched up and Massa made his way through the field into 2nd but had to yield to title-chasing team-mate Alonso. Eventually Massa finished 3rd on the podium in front of his home crowd to end a good second half of the season for him. , Massa started his season strongly with the new F138 at the Australian Grand Prix . He qualified fourth, one place ahead of teammate Alonso. He was able to stay very competitive, especially during the early laps of the race but finished the race in fourth place, two places behind Alonso. At the following race in Malaysia , Massa started on the front row of the grid, out-qualifying Alonso for the fourth time in a row. Massa had a poor start and bad first stint on the intermediate tyres resulting him falling down the order, but as the track dried out, he recovered places on the slick tyres and finished fifth. Three weeks later at the Chinese Grand Prix Massa qualified fifth, beaten by his teammate, who qualified third, for the first time in 5 races. In the race Massa got up to second place before the first round of pitstops, but he pitted a lap later than the other leaders, so he fell back down the order, so despite the early pace that he showed, only managed to finish sixth. At the next race in Bahrain , Massa qualified 6th but moved up to 4th alongside his teammate due to penalties for Webber and Hamilton. Massa was the only car in Q3 to qualify on the hard tyres indicating he was on a different strategy. In the race, the strategy gamble did not pay off as he did not run as far as he wanted and needed before the first stop. Along with two punctures in the race, this resulted in Massa finishing 15th. In Spain , Massa received a three-place grid penalty for blocking Mark Webber in qualifying, and started 9th. He made an excellent start, coming up to 6th, and then leapfrogged more cars during the pitstops, eventually finishing 3rd. His first podium of the year situated him 5th in the Drivers' Championship. , In Monaco Massa suffered a heavy crash during 3rd Practice on Saturday into St Devote corner. He was driving down the main straight at almost 180 mph when his brakes locked and he slid into the barrier on the left hand side of the track. He lost control of the car and bounced off the wall ending up with a face on crash into the tyre wall ahead. He was unhurt by the accident but the car was badly damaged and Massa was unable to take part in Qualifying later in the day. Ferrari engineers initially believed the crash to be attributable to driver error.  Starting the race from 21st on the grid, Massa slowly made up ground before crashing again into St Devote in an almost identical accident. After the crash Massa was taken to hospital in Monte Carlo but escaped with only minor injuries. This second incident caused Ferrari to investigate further, concluding that suspension failure, not driver error, was ultimately to blame.  Massa scored an 8th place in Canada , and a 6th place in Britain . In Germany , he had a good start, jumping to 6th place, before spinning out on lap 3 with gearbox failure. In the Hungarian race, he struggled with an uncompetitive Ferrari, qualifying 7th and finishing 8th. , In Belgium Massa looked to be heading for his 1st pole position since the 2008 Brazilian Grand Prix when he set the fastest time in wet conditions at the beginning of Q3 but the track dried and Ferrari had decided to leave Massa in the garage as they thought his time was good enough for pole so he dropped back to 10th, one place behind team-mate Alonso. In the race Massa finished 7th behind Alonso who finished 2nd. In Ferrari's home race in Italy Massa qualified 4th, one place ahead of his team-mate. He then jumped Red Bull's Mark Webber and Sauber's Nico Hülkenberg who qualified in a brilliant 3rd when the best he had managed all season was 10th in a slow car. Hülkenberg was one of the drivers who was in a chance of taking Massa's seat in 2014. Despite Massa's great start he moved over for Alonso who was race leader Sebastian Vettel 's closest championship rival. Massa dropped to fourth in the pit stop phase after staying out longer than Alonso and Webber, but he fought back to challenge them for a podium, ultimately finishing in fourth place. , On 10 September 2013, Massa confirmed that he be leaving Ferrari at the end of the season on Instagram and Twitter .  The following day, it was announced that Massa's former team-mate, Kimi Räikkönen , would be his replacement at Ferrari.  , On 11 November 2013, Williams F1 announced that Massa would partner Valtteri Bottas for the 2014 Formula One season replacing Pastor Maldonado .  , He suffered an unlucky start to his campaign in Australia , when he retired after being hit hard by Kamui Kobayashi 's Caterham. The string of bad luck continued in Malaysia after a team orders debacle, being caught out by the safety car in Bahrain , a botched pitstop in China and a collision with Sergio Pérez in Canada . However, at the Austrian Grand Prix , he took his first pole position since the 2008 Brazilian Grand Prix and finished fourth. But the next two races, in Britain and Germany , resulted in first lap race-ending collisions with former Ferrari teammate Räikkönen and Kevin Magnussen respectively. , On 7 September 2014 it was confirmed that Massa, along with Bottas, would stay at Williams for 2015 .  On the same day, he scored his first podium for Williams, finishing third in the Italian Grand Prix . , On 9 November 2014 Massa took his second podium for Williams at the Brazilian Grand Prix as he finished third behind second placed Lewis Hamilton and winner Nico Rosberg . Massa ended Williams' competitive season on a high with what he described as his "best race of the year" at the Yas Marina Circuit in Abu Dhabi . Although qualifying in fourth – one place behind teammate Bottas – he showed good pace in the whole weekend and finished a strong second after Rosberg's subsequent power-unit problems, even making a late but convincing challenge on race leader Hamilton in the final third of the race. , * Season in progress. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , Felipe Massa married Anna Raffaela Bassi on 30 November 2007, in São Paulo , Brazil.  The couple's first son, Felipinho (Bassi Massa), was born on 30 November 2009.  , Massa is a friend of Swiss watchmaker Richard Mille , who has dedicated several models of his watches to him (RM-005FM, RM-011).  , Nicolas Todt , son of Ferrari's past team principal and current FIA president Jean Todt , is Massa's manager. , Though Massa supports Brazilian football team São Paulo FC ,  he also supports the Turkish football team Fenerbahçe that was formerly coached by Zico . On 24 August 2007, Massa said: "Zico was my childhood idol, Roberto Carlos is my best friend. I am a Fenerbahçe fan, because it is just like a Brazilian team. I love Turkey , as I won my first championship race in Turkey, it has special value for me."  , Massa holds a charity kart race , Desafio Internacional das Estrelas (International Challenge of the Stars) every year since 2005.  Notably, many active top level Brazilian drivers have competed in the event, such as Formula One drivers Rubens Barrichello and Nelson Piquet, Jr. , drivers who competed in American open wheel events such as Tony Kanaan , Mario Moraes , Felipe Giaffone , Vitor Meira , Roberto Moreno , and Gil de Ferran , and Stock Car Brasil champion Cacá Bueno .  In addition, Brazilian motorcycle racer Alex Barros has competed. Michael Schumacher and Luca Badoer joined the Brazilian contingent in 2007.  Vitantonio Liuzzi , Jeff Gordon and Jaime Alguersuari have also participated. , On 18 September 2012, Massa participated on a world record event at Silverstone where 964 Ferrari cars, 36 shy of their target of 1000, assembled together on the track. This spectacle was witnessed by 25,000 fans which features Massa's 2008 car driven by Ferrari test driver Marc Gené .   , Massa has a strong Roman Catholic faith.  , Massa's helmet was blue with a fluorescent yellow X on the sides and a yellow triangle that covers the upper helmet with the top section coloured with a green gradient (prior to F1, this section was blue), in Ferrari early years until 2010,Massa's helmet featured also a white ring surrounding the top. In 2008 the tips of the fluo yellow X were more ramified. in 2011 on the yellow triangle covered the entire upper front with 2 blue lines in the sides. For his 100th race with Ferrari at the 2011 Brazilian Grand Prix, Massa sported a chrome and gold prancing horse on the top with a further 100 horses representing the races Massa contested with Ferrari. The design also featured gold, blue and green spreading out over the helmet.   Daniel Ricciardo ( rih- CAR -doh ;  born 1 July 1989) is an Australian racing driver who is currently competing in Formula One for Infiniti Red Bull Racing .  He won the British Formula Three Championship in 2009 . After Mark Webber announced his retirement from Formula One, Ricciardo was confirmed as his replacement at Infiniti Red Bull Racing for 2014.  In his first season with Red Bull, Ricciardo finished third in the championship with his first three Formula One wins, in Canada ,  Hungary ,  and Belgium .  , , , His father was born in Ficarra , Sicily  and his mother's family comes from Calabria .  , Ricciardo pronounces his name 'Ricardo' instead of the Italian pronunciation 'Rit-char-do', saying that is how his family pronounces it.  , Born in Perth , Western Australia , Ricciardo started karting at the age of nine, as a member of the Tiger Kart Club (TKC) and entered numerous karting events. In 2005, he entered the Western Australian Formula Ford championship driving a 15-year-old Van Diemen , finishing eighth by season's end.  Towards the end of the season Ricciardo took a leased 13-year-old Van Diemen across to Sandown Raceway in Melbourne to compete at the national Formula Ford series but his ageing car was uncompetitive as he finished sixteenth, seventeenth and retired during the weekend's three races.  The following year, however, he won a scholarship into the Formula BMW Asian championship with Eurasia Motorsport. During his début season, Ricciardo took two victories (both at Bira ) and also achieved a pole position at Zhuhai . He finished third in the Drivers' Championship with 231 points, 59 points behind the champion Earl Bamber . , In August that year, he was given an outing with Motaworld Racing to race one of their Formula BMW cars at the eighth meeting of the British championship. Despite retiring from the first race, Ricciardo recovered to finish eighth in the second race and took three championship points in his only entry in the British championship. At the end of the year, he entered the Formula BMW World Final with Fortec Motorsport where he finished in fifth position, fourteen seconds off winner Christian Vietoris . , 2007 saw the Australian switch categories to Formula Renault with RP Motorsport, entering the European and Italian championships of the category, although mainly focused on the latter series as he entered fourteen races to the four entries he took in the European championship. He finished the year seventh in the Italian series with 196 points and scoring a single podium at Valencia but failed to score a point in his handful of starts in the European races. , The Australian stayed in Formula Renault for a second year in 2008, entering the European and Western European championships. By the end of the year, the young driver took his first European title in the Western European Cup and finished second in the Eurocup to Finn Valtteri Bottas . , During the mid-part of the 2008 season, Ricciardo made his Formula Three début at the Nürburgring , entering SG Formula's Formula 3 Euro Series team. Despite only a short amount of experience in the car the Australian qualified in eighth for the first race which later converted into sixth in the race after James Jakes and Christian Vietoris stalled on the grid.  , Ricciardo moved to the British Formula Three Championship for the 2009 season driving for Carlin Motorsport .  He also made his debut in the 3.5-litre World Series by Renault championship, racing alongside Charles Pic at Tech 1 Racing for the rounds at the Autódromo Internacional do Algarve in Portugal . He retired from the first race, before finishing fifteenth in the second. When he returned to Formula Three, he extended his championship lead to 45 points before returning to the Portuguese circuit. A win and a third in the British-registered cars, gave him an unassailable 64-point lead over Renger van der Zande with just 42 available. This meant that Ricciardo became the first Australian driver since David Brabham in 1989 to win the British Formula Three title. Just like Brabham, Ricciardo won the title in a car powered by a Volkswagen engine. Ricciardo finished the season on a high, taking both pole positions for the final round of the series, at Brands Hatch . He won the first race by fifteen seconds, and finished fourth (third in British-registered cars as Marcus Ericsson was running in the Invitational Class) in the season-ending race. His championship winning margin was 87 points as Walter Grubmüller overhauled his teammate van der Zande, who was absent from the weekend due to a conflicting Euroseries race in Barcelona . , Ricciardo continued his partnership with Carlin, by heading to the Macau Grand Prix with the team.  Ricciardo quickly gathered pace at the circuit, being second fastest (and fastest rookie) behind Marcus Ericsson in first qualifying, before winding up in fifth place in second qualifying, setting the grid for the qualifying race. Following a sixth place in the qualifying race, Ricciardo was forced to retire on the first lap of the main race after hitting a wall at San Francisco. He continued with a puncture up the hill before hitting the wall at the Solitude Esses, and caused a circuit-blocking incident, which also took out seven of his rivals. , On 30 October 2009, Ricciardo was signed by Tech 1 to compete in the 2010 season .  He had competed with the team at the Autódromo Internacional do Algarve in Portugal in 2009 , and was the teammate to Brendon Hartley , another driver who drove for Tech 1 over the season. , Following a minor incident during a mountain bike exercise, Ricciardo was forced to miss the second test of the 2010 season , but went on to take pole position for both races at the season-opening round of the 2010 season in Alcañiz , Spain . He finished third and second in the races respectively, to leave himself at the head of the championship standings. Two weeks later, at the Spa Francorchamps circuit, Ricciardo was relegated to last on the grid after being deemed to have hindered the laps of other drivers. In the next two races he finished 13th and fifth respectively – coming 2nd in the latter until many of the front-runners were given penalties for infringing the parc ferme rules before the race. One week later, in Monte Carlo , Ricciardo secured his third pole position of the season, finishing three tenths of a second ahead of championship rival Stefano Coletti . He secured his first win at the following race, one place ahead of Coletti. The Australian went on to secure two more wins at the Hungaroring and at Hockenheim in commanding fashion. Following Ricciardo's sixth pole from 12 races, Tech 1 team boss, Simon Abadie, praised his driver's efforts greatly, saying "I am happy, and happy for Daniel because six poles in 12 races is good going," and later stated his team's ambitions for success, by telling Autosport correspondent Peter Mills, "I really hopes Daniel wins the championship."  , At the first race at the Silverstone circuit, Ricciardo was involved in a spectacular incident with pole-sitter Jon Lancaster , in which the Australian was sent into a barrel roll, eventually landing on his wheels. The crash saw the end of his race, with teammate Jean-Éric Vergne becoming the eventual winner, following disqualifications. Securing pole for the second race of the weekend, Ricciardo spent much of the race leading the pack by upwards of three seconds. However, braking issues in the second half of the event meant that, on the final lap, championship-rival Esteban Guerrieri was able to pass the Tech 1 racer.  , Going into the final round of the season, Ricciardo sat just three points behind championship leader Mikhail Aleshin and 13 ahead of third-place man Esteban Guerrieri . Managing his 8th pole of the season,  the Australian managed a lights-to-flag victory, setting the fastest lap and placing himself equal first with one race remaining.  After securing second place on the grid for the second race of the weekend, Ricciardo managed to hold position until the pit stops, where he was successfully 'jumped' by two of his rivals, including teammate Vergne. With only two laps left in the race and struggling for pace, the Australian was overtaken by championship rival Aleshin. Finishing in that order, Ricciardo failed to secure the title in his debut year, losing out to Mikhail Aleshin by only two points.  , In 2011 Ricciardo raced for ISR Racing prior to his HRT call-up.  , Ricciardo made his track debut at the wheel of a Formula One car, when he tested for Red Bull Racing at the young drivers test at Circuito de Jerez over three days, from 1–3 December 2009.  On the final day of testing he clocked the fastest time of the test by over a second. This placed him as the only driver to go into the 1:17 bracket.  Red Bull Racing 's team manager Christian Horner suggested that Ricciardo may replace his 2010 World Series teammate Hartley as the team's test and reserve driver.  As it turned out, Ricciardo and Hartley were to share test and reserve duties for both Red Bull, and sister team Scuderia Toro Rosso  until the latter was removed from the Red Bull Junior team.  , On 11 November 2010, Ricciardo was confirmed as the single driver to represent Red Bull Racing at the end-of-season young drivers test at the Yas Marina Circuit , on 16–17 November. At the announcement, he commented, "I can't wait to get another crack at driving Red Bull Racing's amazing Formula One car."  Ricciardo continued to show his one-lap prowess and dominated the event. With his fastest lap being 1.3 seconds faster than 2010 World Champion Sebastian Vettel 's qualifying lap the Saturday before.  , Days after completing this session Ricciardo was confirmed as Toro Rosso's test and reserve driver for the 2011 season, and would take part in the first free practice session of each race weekend.   Franz Tost, Toro Rosso team principal stated that "having a hungry youngster on the books will keep our current driver pairing nice and sharp", referring to then Toro Rosso drivers Jaime Alguersuari and Sebastian Buemi .  Ricciardo would also make an appearance in pre-season testing for the 2011 Formula One season, driving for Scuderia Toro Rosso. , At the 2011 Australian Grand Prix Ricciardo was placed 16th  on the timesheets after opening practice, just one-tenth slower than his experienced Toro Rosso team mate Sebastian Buemi. The Australian managed to later finish eighth in practice for the wet Turkish Grand Prix Friday practice one session, a place ahead of competitor Buemi. , On 30 June 2011, Ricciardo was contracted to Hispania Racing by Red Bull Racing, replacing Narain Karthikeyan for all the remaining races of the 2011 season except the Indian Grand Prix , to allow Karthikeyan to race at his home Grand Prix.  Ricciardo made his Grand Prix debut at the 2011 British Grand Prix at Silverstone . , However, on 22 October 2011, a few days before the inaugural Indian Grand Prix , the race where Karthikeyan was due to gain back his seat for his home race, HRT F1 announced that Vitantonio Liuzzi made way for Karthikeyan, allowing Ricciardo to race in India and extend his learning curve that Red Bull Racing paid the struggling Spanish team to do, as well as allowing Karthikeyan to race in front of his home fans. In Abu Dhabi , Ricciardo retired with mechanical problems after starting 20th on the grid and in the final race at the Brazilian Grand Prix , Ricciardo finished 20th after starting 22nd on the grid. , On 14 December 2011, it was confirmed that Ricciardo would drive for the Scuderia Toro Rosso for the 2012 season, alongside Frenchman Jean-Éric Vergne .  , At the Australian Grand Prix on 18 March 2012, Ricciardo managed to overtake his teammate Vergne late on the last lap to come home in ninth place, securing his first two World Championship points. , In wet conditions in Malaysia he finished 12th, after having been first to switch to slick tyres. [ citation needed ] In Bahrain he qualified sixth, but dropped back during the race and finished 15th. In the 2012 Monaco Grand Prix he suffered his only retirement of the season, after having started from 15th position. , On 31 October 2012, Toro Rosso announced the re-signing of Ricciardo for the 2013 season.  , Ricciardo replaced Mark Webber at Infiniti Red Bull Racing at the start of the 2014 Formula One season, partnering Sebastian Vettel , a four-time world champion.   , In the first race of the season, the Australian Grand Prix , Ricciardo qualified in second place behind Lewis Hamilton  and completed the race in second place, despite pressure from rookie Kevin Magnussen in the final laps. Ricciardo was later disqualified, as his car was ruled to have exceeded the mandated hourly fuel flow rate limit.  Had he not been disqualified, it would have marked the first time an Australian had made the podium at the Australian Grand Prix since the race became part of the World Championship.  Infiniti Red Bull Racing filed an appeal against the disqualification   which was rejected by the International Court of Appeal, the FIA decision being upheld.  , Ricciardo failed to finish in the Malaysian Grand Prix ,  but managed to record his first points of the 2014 season at the Bahrain Grand Prix , where he finished fourth, after starting in 13th position.  By winning at the Canadian Grand Prix ,  Ricciardo became the fourth Australian to win a Grand Prix in Formula One, joining Jack Brabham , Alan Jones and Mark Webber. His victory in Canada broke the chain of six Mercedes victories that marked the beginning of the 2014 season. Ricciardo impressed many by beating Vettel throughout the first half of the 2014 season, and after a clean and tight battle between Ricciardo and Fernando Alonso at the German Grand Prix , Alonso described Ricciardo as 'unbelievable' and "very, very smart, very respectful".  , Ricciardo won the Hungarian Grand Prix on 27 July, ahead of Alonso and Lewis Hamilton.  He was in third place behind Alonso and Hamilton with less than four laps remaining and overtook Hamilton's Mercedes with a pass on the outside of the Hungaroring 's turn 2. He then easily caught and passed Alonso's Ferrari as he had very little grip left on his tyres – television footage of his left front tyre after the race showed it to be badly blistered. In the final two laps, Ricciardo pulled away to win the race by 5.225 seconds. His team mate Vettel survived a spin coming onto the main straight late in the race to finish seventh.  Ricciardo became the second Australian to win the Hungarian Grand Prix , after Mark Webber's victory – also for Red Bull – in 2010 . Ricciardo then went on to score his third victory of his career to go back to back in Belgium, become the first Australian to win there since Jack Brabham in 1960 .  , On 4 October 2014, it was announced that Ricciardo would partner Daniil Kvyat for the 2015 season, following the announcement of Vettel's departure from the team. In his first season for Red Bull Racing , Ricciardo confirmed third place in the drivers' championship at the Brazilian Grand Prix , despite it being his first retirement since the Malaysian Grand Prix . In the final race of the season, the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , despite starting from the pit lane due to a front wing infringement, Ricciardo finished in fourth place and secured the first fastest lap of his Formula One career. , On 8 February 2015, during the third episode of series 22 of the popular British motoring television programme, Top Gear , Ricciardo became the fastest Formula One driver to perform a lap of the Top Gear test track during the Star in a Reasonably Priced Car feature, beating the previous record-holder Lewis Hamilton with a time of 1:42.2. , * Season in progress. , ( key ) , † – As Ricciardo was a guest driver, he was ineligible for points. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap)  Daniil Vyacheslavovich Kvyat ( Russian : Дании́л Вячесла́вович Квят ; IPA:  [dənʲɪˈil vʲɪtɕɪˈslavəvʲɪtɕ kvʲat] , born 26 April 1994) is a Russian auto racing driver. He was runner-up at the 2012 Eurocup Formula Renault 2.0 , and GP3 Series champion in 2013. He joined Formula One as a Toro Rosso driver in 2014 finishing 15th in the World Championship. He then moved on to Red Bull Racing to partner Daniel Ricciardo for the 2015 season. , , , Born in Ufa , Bashkortostan , Russia , Kvyat was an active kart racer in Russia and Italy. In 2009, he finished third in the KF3 European Championship category and finished as runner-up in the WSK International Series. , Kvyat started his formula racing career during the 2010 Formula BMW Pacific season with EuroInternational at the Sepang International Circuit . In his first race he started from sixth place, but finished only nineteenth.  He finished fifth in the second race. During the season, he joined the Red Bull Junior Team and made his debut in Formula BMW Europe with the same team.  He finished in tenth position in the final championship standings, with a second-place finish at Monza . , Kvyat contested New Zealand's Toyota Racing Series in January and February 2011 with Victory Motor Racing, finishing fifth in the championship with a win in the Dan Higgins Trophy at Manfeild and another five podiums.  , After two races with Koiranen Bros. Motorsport in 2010 , in the Eurocup Formula Renault 2.0 finale at Barcelona and a fourth-place finish in the Formula Renault UK Winter Series , Kvyat, and his Formula BMW and Red Bull Junior teammate Carlos Sainz Jr. , joined Koiranen for full 2011 seasons in both the Eurocup and the Formula Renault 2.0 Northern European Cup . He finished as runner-up behind Sainz, Jr. in the Northern European Cup standings with seven wins, including a hat-trick of wins at Monza. In the Eurocup he was outpaced by former Formula BMW rival Robin Frijns and Sainz, scoring two wins at Spa and the Nürburgring. , For 2012, Kvyat remained in the Formula Renault category, competing in both Formula Renault 2.0 Alps and the Eurocup Formula Renault 2.0 series. His debut in the Alps championship was marked with a dominating double win at Monza .  In May he returned to the Eurocup, and recorded a double win in the opening round of the season at Motorland Aragón .  He ultimately clinched the Alps title and finished as runner-up in the Eurocup, following a dramatic season finale at Catalunya . He was leading the race in heavy rain, but his tyres lost all grip during the final laps, and he missed the title by 10 points. Kvyat remained with the Red Bull Junior Team and progressed to the GP3 Series for 2013. , Kvyat spent 2013 competing in the GP3 Series with MW Arden and the European Formula 3 championship with Carlin Motorsport . Kvyat was a late registration for the latter series, and so he was ineligible for points. He scored five pole positions, seven podiums and a dominant win at Zandvoort . His first win saw an unusual mistake on the part of event organisers: there was no record of National Anthem of Russia present at Zandvoort, and "The Patriotic Song" by Mikhail Glinka was played instead to celebrate Kvyat's win.  , His progress in GP3 was rapid as well. Kvyat started the season poorly but immediately recovered, scoring his first podium in his fifth feature race. Following two wins in next two feature races, he went into the Abu Dhabi event being a title contender and finally won the championship in his debut year. His performance in two final feature races at Monza and Abu Dhabi was notable: Kvyat scored a pole, a win, led every lap and recorded the fastest lap, gaining the maximum points available at both races. , In October 2013, Kvyat was announced as the second driver of the Scuderia Toro Rosso (STR) Formula One team for the 2014 season, alongside Frenchman Jean-Éric Vergne .  He replaced Daniel Ricciardo , who moved to parent team Red Bull Racing .  As a test driver for STR, he took part in Friday practice for the final two Grands Prix of the 2013 season, in the United States and Brazil .  Kvyat made his F1 debut—aged 19—in the 2014 Australian Grand Prix , where he finished 9th, breaking Sebastian Vettel 's record as the youngest points-scorer in Formula One.  He went on to score points in the Malaysian , Chinese , British and Belgian Grands Prix,  finishing 15th in the World Championship. In September the organisers of the inaugural Russian Grand Prix announced their intention of naming a stand in the Sochi Autodrom after him.  , In October 2014 it was announced that Kvyat would be promoted to Red Bull for the 2015 season, to replace the quadruple world champion Sebastian Vettel .  , Kvyat will race for Red Bull for the 2015 season, alongside Daniel Ricciardo , after being promoted following the departure of four-time World Champion Sebastian Vettel to Ferrari .  , Kvyat currently lives with his family in Rome , Italy . He is fluent in four languages: English, Spanish, Italian, Russian.  , Rules introduced for the 2014 Formula One season allowed the drivers to pick their own racing numbers that they will carry with them for the rest of their careers. When asked about which number he wanted, Kvyat revealed that 26 was the number he had chosen as he had no previous connection to it, and that he wanted to make it successful.  , Kvyat's hobbies include table tennis , football , wakeboarding and skiing .  , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicates fastest lap) , * Season in progress.  Nicolas "Nico" Hülkenberg ( German pronunciation: [ˈniːko ˈhʏlkənbɛɐ̯k] , born 19 August 1987) is a German professional racing driver currently racing for the Sahara Force India Formula 1 Team . In 2015 he also contested in two rounds of the 2015 World Endurance Championship for Porsche, winning the 2015 24 Hours of Le Mans in his first attempt. He was the 2009 champion of the GP2 Series , and is a previous champion of both the Formula 3 Euro Series and A1 Grand Prix , as part of A1 Team Germany . He is one of three drivers since 2005 to win the GP2 series championship in his debut season, the others being Lewis Hamilton and Nico Rosberg . , Hülkenberg raced in Formula One in 2010 with the Williams team. Despite winning the first pole position for Williams in more than five years he was not retained for 2011 , and joined Force India as a test and reserve driver. He was promoted to a race seat with the team for the 2012 season, joining Paul di Resta .   In 2013 he drove for the Sauber team,  with Mexican driver Esteban Gutiérrez as his team-mate.  Hülkenberg returned to Force India for the 2014 season.  , , , Born in Emmerich am Rhein , North Rhine-Westphalia, West Germany , Hülkenberg made his karting debut in 1997, at the age of 10. In 2002 he was German Junior Karting Champion and the following year he won the German Kart Championship.  , Hülkenberg was previously managed by Willi Weber , the long-time manager of Michael Schumacher . Weber predicted that Hülkenberg would be ready for Formula One by 2008 . He also praised Hülkenberg as an "unbelievable talent" and said he reminded him of Schumacher as a young driver. He also stated that he nicknamed him " The Hulk ", after the fictional superhero, in reference to Hülkenberg changing his personality whilst at the wheel.  , Hülkenberg made his German Formula BMW in 2005, dominating the championship and winning the title comfortably. He finished first in the Formula BMW world final but was stripped of the win after it was claimed he had brake-tested his rivals during a safety car period.  , Hülkenberg also joined the German A1 Grand Prix team for the 2006–07 season . Nine wins in his rookie season made him the most successful driver in A1GP history. It meant he almost single-handedly won Germany the championship with 128 points, 35 more than Team New Zealand .  , Hülkenberg finished fifth in the German Formula Three Championship (ATS Formel 3 Cup) in 2006. For 2007 he switched to the Formula 3 Euro Series with the ASM team that had taken Lewis Hamilton and Paul di Resta to the last two championships. His first win came at the Norisring  from 18th on the grid, he won again in the rain at Zandvoort  and added a third at the Nürburgring .  But he ran into trouble at Magny-Cours , being penalised in qualifying for passing the chequered flag twice, and crashing into Filip Salaquarda in the race.  , Hülkenberg won the (non-championship) Masters of Formula 3 race at Zolder from team mate (and F3 Euro Series championship leader) Romain Grosjean after Grosjean stalled at the start.  , Hülkenberg won the Formula 3 Euro Series championship in 2008 . Hülkenberg amassed 76 of his total of 85 points during the feature races on Saturdays, taking seven wins in the progress. [ citation needed ] , Hülkenberg made his GP2 Asia Series début for the ART Grand Prix team at the third round of the 2008–09 GP2 Asia Series season in Bahrain , where he took pole position at his first attempt.  He finished both races in fourth place and this left him in seventh place in the championship. His second race weekend in Qatar , saw him become the first night race pole-sitter, and promptly turned that into becoming the first race-winner under lights after a dominant performance. Such was his performance that he ended up over thirteen seconds clear of second-placed driver Sergio Pérez .  He finished third in the sprint race, taking his championship points tally to 27 from just four races. Despite this, he finished sixth in the championship. , Hülkenberg continued with ART into the 2009 GP2 Series season (partnering Pastor Maldonado ), and took his first win in dominant fashion, during his home round of the series at the Nürburgring . With the series' top eight inverted grid, Hülkenberg started eighth for the sprint race. He won the sprint race as well, becoming the first driver to do the weekend double since Giorgio Pantano at Monza in the 2006 season . In doing so, he became only the second driver to complete the clean sweep, with pole position, two fastest laps and two wins; equalling the achievements of Nelson Piquet, Jr. , who achieved it at the Hungaroring , also in 2006. Hülkenberg clinched the title with two races to spare, after a third place finish in the Monza sprint race, shadowing Brazilians Luiz Razia and Lucas di Grassi home. The result left him with an unassailable 22-point lead heading to the final round, and in the process becoming the first driver to clinch the championship without the need for a final round decider. A fifth win followed at the Autódromo Internacional do Algarve , allowing the German to break the 100-point barrier, and eventually won the title by 25 points from Vitaly Petrov . Worthy of note is that Hülkenberg ended the season 64 points clear of his team mate Pastor Maldonado , who would later go on to get his Williams race seat for the 2011 F1 season. [ citation needed ] , Hülkenberg first drove a Formula One car in a test for Williams in 2007. His manager, Willi Weber , had organised the test after failing to conclude a deal with Renault boss Flavio Briatore . The two-day test was held at the Circuito de Jerez in Spain, and Hülkenberg outpaced Williams' driver Kazuki Nakajima , and set laptimes 0.4 seconds slower than Nico Rosberg .  Hülkenberg's performance at the test led to the Williams team signing him as a test driver , and he competed in several test sessions in addition to racing in lower formulae.  His test contract with Williams was extended for 2009, despite in-season tests being banned from that season.  Hülkenberg would also act as the team's reserve driver, in the event of the regular drivers being unable to compete. , On 2 November 2009, Hülkenberg was confirmed to race for Williams in 2010 .  Hülkenberg's team-mate for his first season would be the experienced driver Rubens Barrichello , who moved from Brawn GP which in turn was bought out by Mercedes-Benz . , Hülkenberg made his debut at the Bahrain Grand Prix , recovering from an early spin to finish in fourteenth position. At the second round in Australia , he was involved in a first-lap incident with Kamui Kobayashi , after the Japanese driver's front wing failed and sent him into the barrier, rebounding into the path of Hülkenberg. At the third round in Malaysia , Hülkenberg made it to Q3 for the first time, qualifying in fifth place; out-qualifying team-mate Barrichello for the first time. Hülkenberg looked set to finish eleventh in the race until Fernando Alonso blew his engine three laps from the end, thus promoting Hülkenberg to tenth place and with the new-for-2010 points system , Hülkenberg along with Jaime Alguersuari scored their first points in Formula One. He was tenth again at Silverstone, and at the Hungarian Grand Prix he finished sixth, a career best. He also picked up points finishes in Italy, Singapore, and Korea. At the Japanese Grand Prix , Renault driver Vitaly Petrov misjudged a move at the start and cut across Hülkenberg's nose thus taking them both out of the race. Towards the end of the season there were reports that he could lose his seat at Williams to the GP2 Series champion Pastor Maldonado due to the money Maldonado could bring to the team.  Force India 's Adrian Sutil was also linked to replace Hülkenberg at Williams. , On 6 November Hülkenberg gained his first Formula One pole position, by 1.049 seconds over Sebastian Vettel at the Brazilian Grand Prix . This was the Williams team's first pole position since the 2005 European Grand Prix . Hülkenberg completed a final lap after pole position was already secured, increasing his gap to the rest of the field.  After losing the lead on the opening lap, he eventually finished the race in eighth place. , After the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , team boss Frank Williams confirmed that Hülkenberg would not be driving for the team in 2011 .  , On 26 January 2011, Hülkenberg was confirmed as Force India 's reserve driver for the 2011 season, where he would drive for the team in the Friday practice sessions.  He replaced Paul di Resta , who was promoted to a race position in the team. Hülkenberg competed in the first practice sessions of all the races apart from Monaco , Hungary , Korea , India and Abu Dhabi . On 16 December 2011, Force India announced di Resta and Hülkenberg would be their drivers for the 2012 season.  , Hülkenberg qualified ninth for the Australian Grand Prix , six places ahead of di Resta, but his race ended on the first lap after picking up damage in a first-corner incident before retiring further round the course. He picked up his first points for Force India the following weekend, at the Malaysian Grand Prix ; he finished in ninth place, having started the race in sixteenth. He again qualified sixteenth, for the Chinese Grand Prix . He achieved his best Formula One finish with a fourth place at the Belgian Grand Prix . Hülkenberg didn't score any points in Italy or Singapore , but collected points at all of the next five Grands Prix, except on the Yas Marina Circuit where he was involved in a collision on the first lap, and subsequently retired. This was the first time he scored points in more than two races in a row. , In the last race of the season, the 2012 Brazilian Grand Prix , Hülkenberg qualified 7th but was promoted to 6th after Pastor Maldonado received a 10 place grid penalty. By lap three he had moved forward two places and on lap five he passed Fernando Alonso for third place. He moved into second position when McLaren's Lewis Hamilton pitted on lap 11. Hülkenberg then passed Jenson Button at the start of lap 19 to take the lead. He and Button built up a 45-second lead before the safety car was deployed because of debris on the track. He still led until he was passed by Hamilton, after sliding at the entry of Turn 8 on lap 49. On lap 55 he collided with Hamilton when the rear of Hülkenberg's car slid out while trying to pass him at Turn 1. This ended Hamilton's last race for McLaren. After being given a drive-through penalty as a result of the incident, Hülkenberg finished fifth, allowing him to take 11th place in the drivers' championship from Kamui Kobayashi. , Hülkenberg finished the year 17 points ahead of his teammate Paul di Resta and he out-qualified him 12 times, to di Resta's eight. , On 31 October 2012 Sauber confirmed they had signed Hülkenberg for the 2013 season to replace Sergio Pérez , who moved to McLaren.  , Hülkenberg failed to start the Australian Grand Prix due to a leak in the fuel system of his Sauber C32 ; he had qualified eleventh for the race,  but was withdrawn for safety reasons.  At the Malaysian Grand Prix , Hülkenberg qualified in twelfth, but finished the race in eighth place.  Hülkenberg put in his best qualifying performance of the season to date at the Italian Grand Prix to put himself 3rd on the grid. After losing two places to the Ferraris of Felipe Massa and Fernando Alonso, he managed to keep 5th place even though harried by the Mercedes of Nico Rosberg towards the end of the race. By finishing in fifth place, he overtook Toro Rosso driver Jean-Éric Vergne in the drivers' championship. His best finish was at the Korean Grand Prix where he finished 4th after close battle with Hamilton and Alonso, in which he showed impressive defending skills and made no mistakes. , On 3 December 2013, Force India confirmed they had signed Hülkenberg for 2014 to race alongside Sergio Pérez . In the first round, Hülkenberg finished the Australian Grand Prix in seventh place – his first finish in Melbourne – but was promoted to sixth after the disqualification of second-placed Daniel Ricciardo . He later finished fifth at the Malaysian Grand Prix , spending a large amount of time in fourth place, holding off Ferrari 's Fernando Alonso before being overtaken. Another fifth place at Bahrain put Hülkenberg in third place of the drivers' standings, behind the two Mercedes drivers, Lewis Hamilton and Nico Rosberg . , At the Chinese Grand Prix Hülkenberg took sixth place, taking eight points. He fell to fourth place in the Drivers' Championship after Fernando Alonso finished in third place. Force India lost second in the Constructors' Championship to Red Bull Racing . , In October 2014, Force India confirmed they had re-signed Hülkenberg for 2015.  , It was confirmed in November 2014 that Hülkenberg would compete in the 2015 24 Hours of Le Mans in a third factory-backed Porsche 919 Hybrid . He also contested the Spa-Francorchamps round of the World Endurance Championship as preparation.  , On 14 June 2015, he won the 24 Hours of Le Mans race, driving alongside Britain's Nick Tandy and Earl Bamber of New Zealand. They completed 395 laps, one lap ahead of the car of their Porsche teammates Mark Webber , Brendon Hartley and Timo Bernhard , who took second place. This win was Porsche's first overall victory in the event since the 1998 24 Hours of Le Mans .  Hulkenberg's triumph made him the first active Formula One driver to win at Le Mans since Johnny Herbert and Bertrand Gachot , who performed the same feat in 1991 .  , * Season in progress. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , * Season in progress  Romain Grosjean ( French pronunciation: ​ [ʁɔmɛ̃ ɡʁoʒɑ̃] ; born 17 April 1986 in Geneva , Switzerland ) is a racing driver , currently racing for the Lotus F1 Team . He races under the French flag in Formula One, although he was born in Geneva and holds dual Franco-Swiss nationality. , He dominated the 2005 French Formula Renault championship on his first attempt and joined the Renault young driver program. He was the 2007 Formula 3 Euro Series drivers' champion. In 2008 he became the inaugural GP2 Asia Series champion and came 4th in his first year in GP2 . In 2009 he made his Formula 1 debut for Renault at the European Grand Prix and came 4th again in GP2 despite missing the final 8 races. , After being dropped by Renault he returned to junior formula winning the 2010 AutoGP championship on his first attempt and winning the 2011 GP2 Asia Series and GP2 Series becoming the first – and as of December 2014, only – two-time GP2 Asia champion and the only driver to hold both the GP2 Asia series and main GP2 series titles simultaneously. (Due to the Asia and Main GP2 series being combined, it is likely that this will remain true for the foreseeable future). , In 2012, Grosjean returned to Formula One with the Lotus F1 Team , alongside Kimi Räikkönen .  He took his first podium in Formula One at the 2012 Bahrain Grand Prix and took his first fastest lap in the 2012 Spanish Grand Prix . He became the first driver since 1994 to receive a race ban after causing a multi-car pile up at the 2012 Belgian Grand Prix . In 2013 he remained with Lotus, taking 6 podiums. He drove for Lotus again alongside Venezuelan Pastor Maldonado in the 2014 season . This line up was continued for 2015 . , , , Grosjean was born in Geneva , Switzerland. He won all ten rounds of the 2003 Swiss Formula Renault 1.6 championship and moved to the French Formula Renault championship for 2004.  , He was seventh in that first season with one win and champion in 2005 with ten victories. Grosjean also appeared in the Formula Renault Eurocup and finished on the podium twice in Valencia .  , With his results and potential in the Formula Renault series, Romain joined the Renault Driver Development programme for the continuation of his career.  , Grosjean made his F3 debut at the demanding Macau Guia Circuit , standing in for Loïc Duval at Signature-Plus. He qualified 19th and raced to ninth, beating team-mates Fabio Carbone and Guillaume Moreau.  , He did a full season in the Formula 3 Euro Series in 2006 but had a tough year, taking only one podium finish and ending the year 13th. But in a one-off appearance in the British Formula Three Championship he started on pole position for both races at Pau, won both and set fastest lap in each.  , He stayed in the F3 Euroseries for 2007 but stepped up to ASM Formule 3, for which Jamie Green , Lewis Hamilton , and Paul di Resta won the previous three titles.  Sébastien Buemi led the championship in the early stages but Grosjean moved ahead with a victory in the ninth race of the season at Mugello.  He maintained a lead in the standings from that point onwards and won the title at the final round of the year with one race in hand.  , Grosjean took pole position for the prestigious Masters of F3 race at Zolder but finished 14th after stalling at the start.  , Grosjean drove for ART in the inaugural GP2 Asia Series season alongside Stephen Jelley , winning both races of the first round of the championship. He went on to win the championship with four race victories and sixty-one points overall. , He stayed with ART Grand Prix team for the 2008 GP2 Series season .  His team-mates were Luca Filippi  and Sakon Yamamoto . , In the first round at the Circuit de Catalunya Grosjean started 11th after engine problems in qualifying. He rose through the field to finish fifth in the feature race, giving him fourth on the grid for the shorter sprint race.  After a good start Grosjean was up to second and then passed Kobayashi for the lead. But Grosjean made a mistake on a late rolling restart and Kobayashi tried to pass him again for the lead. Grosjean moved across on Kobayashi to keep the position but the stewards decided his defensive move was illegal and gave him a drive-through penalty dropping him to 13th at the end of the race.  Victory in the sprint race at Istanbul, the fourth round of the season, moved Grosjean into second place in the championship.  Despite dropping back from this position, he finished the season fourth and achieved the distinction of being the highest-placed rookie in the championship. , 2008 Formula 3 Euro Series season champion Nico Hülkenberg joined Pastor Maldonado at ART for 2009, forcing Grosjean out of the team. Nonetheless, Renault placed him at 2008 team champions Campos Grand Prix for 2009, now known as Barwa Addax .  Despite missing the last four rounds, Grosjean finished fourth in the championship standings. , Grosjean was confirmed as Renault's test driver for 2008 , replacing Nelson Piquet, Jr. , who graduated to a race seat.  He drove a Formula One car for the first time at the UK round of the 2008 World Series by Renault weekend at Silverstone on 7 and 8 June 2008, where he gave a number of demonstrations of the previous year's R27 car. , He initially continued in the test driver role at Renault for 2009, but took over Piquet's seat in the wake of the Crashgate controversy from the European Grand Prix onwards.  Grosjean qualified 14th at the European Grand Prix . He was knocked out of Q2 0.323 seconds off the pace of team mate Fernando Alonso . He finished 15th in the race after a first lap collision with Luca Badoer necessitated a stop for a new front wing. For the next round in Belgium Grosjean qualified 19th, which he blamed on traffic and yellow flags. In the race he was eliminated on the first lap after a collision with Jenson Button . At the Italian Grand Prix , Grosjean qualified a career best 12th, but made a poor start, damaged his car with contact at the first corner, spun on the second lap, and finished 15th. He described himself as "very disappointed" after the race. , At the Singapore Grand Prix , Grosjean qualified 19th after suffering brake problems. He was hopeful of making progress in the race, but the brake problems reappeared, forcing him to retire after just three laps. At the Japanese Grand Prix , Grosjean qualified 18th, which he blamed on rain throughout practice preventing him from fully learning the demanding Suzuka Circuit , which he had never driven on before. He was promoted to 17th due to Timo Glock being unable to start the race. He was unable to make progress in the race, finishing 16th after struggling with understeer throughout the race on the unfamiliar circuit. At the Brazilian Grand Prix , Grosjean suffered an accident in practice, although he escaped unhurt. He qualified 13th in his repaired car, gained positions at the start, but then slipped back down to 13th after complaining of grip and tyre temperature problems, his best result of the season. At the season ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , Grosjean qualified 19th, and finished 18th and last, again complaining of brake problems during the race. He said afterwards that he had "learnt an enormous amount this year, especially being team mate to Fernando". After the end of the season news reports had doubts that Grosjean would keep his seat into 2010, On 31 January 2010 Renault confirmed that Grosjean's former GP2 team mate at the Addax Team , Vitaly Petrov would be the team's second driver alongside Robert Kubica for the 2010 season leaving Grosjean without a Formula One drive for 2010. However in September 2010, it was confirmed by tyre manufacturer Pirelli that Grosjean would complete a test for the company in anticipation for their return to supplying tyres to the F1 grid in 2011. Grosjean replaced Nick Heidfeld , who left his testing duties to take up a race seat at Sauber .  , After leaving Formula One, Grosjean became involved in sportscar racing. In March 2010, Grosjean secured a drive in the inaugural FIA GT1 World Championship , driving a Ford GT 1 for the Matech Competition team alongside German driver Thomas Mutsch .  The pairing won the opening Championship Race of the season in Abu Dhabi and added a second victory at Brno in May to lead the standings after the first three rounds of the season.  , In June 2010, Grosjean made his debut in the famous Le Mans 24 Hours endurance race, sharing a Ford GT1 with Mutsch and Jonathan Hirschi. After qualifying third in the LMGT1 class, they were forced to retire from the race after 171 laps.  , In June 2010, Grosjean made a return to single-seaters, racing for the DAMS team in the third round of the Auto GP season at Spa-Francorchamps .  After dominating practice and taking pole position, he won the feature race before finishing second to Carlos Iaconelli in the sprint event.  Over the course of the weekend, Grosjean accumulated 18 points out of a possible 19 on offer and took away €80,000 prize money as the event's top points scorer. He went on to win three more races to take the title at Monza 16 points ahead of second place man Edoardo Piscopo . , On 20 July 2010, Grosjean announced that he would return to GP2 with the DAMS team. He replaced the then Renault test driver Jérôme d'Ambrosio for the German round of the championship.  He later substituted for D'Ambrosio's injured team-mate, Ho-Pin Tung , from the Belgian round onwards (despite Tung recovering and returning to the series with a different team), finishing 3rd in Belgium and Abu Dhabi to take fourteenth place in the drivers' standings, only two positions behind D'Ambrosio.  , Grosjean returned to GP2 full-time with DAMS for the 2011 GP2 Series and 2011 GP2 Asia Series seasons.  He took two pole positions and one race victory to win the Asia Series by six points from Jules Bianchi , and also won the first race of the main series to lead that championship as well. He lost the championship lead to Giedo van der Garde , after the second round of the series, after an event which was hampered by a disqualification due to a technical infringement,  but regained it again the following week at Monaco , scoring points in both races despite starting from last place on the grid. After scoring four further wins as part of a mid-season run that included six consecutive podium finishes, he pulled clear of his pursuers and clinched the championship at the penultimate round at Spa-Francorchamps . , At the start of 2011 , Grosjean returned to the newly branded Lotus Renault GP team as one of five test drivers along with Bruno Senna , Ho-Pin Tung , Jan Charouz and Fairuz Fauzy . Lotus Renault had planned to run Robert Kubica and Vitaly Petrov throughout 2011 but Kubica had a horrific rally accident and was unable to drive during 2011. Former BMW Sauber team mate Nick Heidfeld replaced Kubica for the first 11 races before himself being replaced by Senna from the Belgian Grand Prix onwards. In late October 2011, Lotus Renault announced that Grosjean would drive in the Friday practice session in the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix (replacing Senna) and the Brazilian Grand Prix (replacing Petrov). , On 9 December 2011, it was announced that Grosjean would make his comeback to Formula One in 2012 , taking the second seat at the newly renamed Lotus F1 Team (formerly Renault , the team that Grosjean raced with in 2009) alongside 2007 World Champion Kimi Räikkönen . , At the Australian Grand Prix , Grosjean set the second fastest time in the final free practice session,  and while team-mate Räikkönen was eliminated in the first part of qualifying, Grosjean made it into the top ten – for the first time, as his previous best was twelfth place   – and ultimately qualified in third position.  He fell to sixth at the start and retired on the second lap after a collision with Pastor Maldonado ,  which broke his right-front suspension. At the 2012 Bahrain Grand Prix he finished third, collecting his first Formula One podium and the first for a French driver since Jean Alesi at the 1998 Belgian Grand Prix .  In Spain Grosjean started third, finished fourth and set his first fastest lap in Formula One; the first for a French driver since Jean Alesi at the 1996 Monaco Grand Prix . At the 2012 Canadian Grand Prix , he collected his second F1 podium with a career best finish of second, behind Lewis Hamilton . , At Valencia , Grosjean was running second when the car's electronics malfunctioned forcing the Frenchman's first mechanical-related retirement of the season. At the British Grand Prix , Grosjean topped the timesheets during Practice 1 on Friday, but qualifying did not go as well. Right at the end of Q2 he spun into the gravel at the final corner after managing to get into Q3, this meant he could not take any further part in qualifying and started from tenth, although he was promoted to ninth after Nico Hülkenberg took a grid penalty. At the start of the race he was involved in an incident with Paul di Resta as the Force India driver clipped Grosjean's front wing meaning he had to pit for a new one. However Grosjean fought back through the field to finish in sixth just behind his team mate. At the German Grand Prix , Grosjean started nineteenth due to a gearbox penalty and finished eighteenth after picking up a puncture on lap one. A week later, at the Hungarian Grand Prix , Grosjean qualified second, the first time a French Formula One driver had started on the front row of the grid since Jean Alesi at the 1999 French Grand Prix ; Grosjean finished third in the race behind Hamilton and teammate Räikkönen. , At Spa Grosjean caused a multicar pile-up at the start of the race, with Lewis Hamilton , Fernando Alonso and Sergio Pérez all eliminated from the race as well as Grosjean; the incident was started when Grosjean drove into Hamilton on the approach to the La Source corner.  Grosjean was given a one race ban post-race (the first driver to be banned since Michael Schumacher in 1994 ),  as well as a fine of €50,000, with the FIA saying in a statement "The stewards regard this incident as an extremely serious breach of the regulations, which had the potential to cause injury to others. It eliminated leading championship contenders from the race. The stewards note [that] the team conceded the action was an extremely serious mistake and an error of judgement. Neither the team nor the driver made any submission in mitigation of penalty."  He was replaced for the 2012 Italian Grand Prix by Lotus test and reserve driver Jérôme d'Ambrosio .  His team boss, Éric Boullier said that Grosjean learned an important lesson following his ban,  however just one Grand Prix later Grosjean crashed into Mark Webber at the first corner with the Australian branding him a "first lap nutcase". Grosjean's actions have been condemned by many drivers in the paddock.  At Abu Dhabi Grosjean was involved in another first lap incident.  In São Paulo Grosjean hit the back of Pedro de la Rosa 's HRT in qualifying.  , On December 14–16 Grosjean won the Race of Champions after a Grand Final victory over Le Mans legend Tom Kristensen at the Rajamangala Stadium in Bangkok . The day before Grosjean got the second place in Nations' Cup event along with his teammate Sébastien Ogier in the French team. The winners were Sebastian Vettel and Michael Schumacher from the German team.    , On 17 December 2012, it was confirmed to Grosjean would stay at Lotus for the 2013 season .  , He had three points-scoring finishes at the three opening races before receiving a new chassis to help his chances at Bahrain ; he qualified 11th and climbed to third. At the next race in Spain , his suspension failed on lap 9. At the Monaco Grand Prix , Grosjean had three crashes during the practice sessions, leading his team principal, Boullier, to tell Grosjean to "wake up". [ citation needed ] He qualified 13th but his race ended when he crashed into the back of Daniel Ricciardo , earning him a 10-place grid penalty for the next race. At the Canadian Grand Prix he started last on the grid as a consequence of the 10-place grid penalty earned previously. He came back to 8th position in race but finished the race in 13th position as he had to pit stop a third time due to heavy tyre wear. On the first lap of the British Grand Prix Grosjean, squeezed between two cars crashed into Webber, damaging the front wing of Webber's car. Grosjean later retired on the last lap as he was in 8th position due to serious front wing damage. At the German Grand Prix after qualifying 5th he led the race for a while and seemed to be on a faster pace than Sebastian Vettel but the intervention of the safety car changed the race. He was forced to let his team mate Kimi Räikkönen pass towards the end of the race as Räikkönen had faster tyres. Grosjean resisted Fernando Alonso to earn his second podium of the season as Vettel went on to win the race and Räikkönen came second. At the Hungarian Grand Prix Grosjean qualified 3rd on the grid, finishing the race in 6th position after receiving a drive through penalty for crossing the white line as he overtook Felipe Massa . After the race, he was given a further 20-second time penalty for colliding with Jenson Button , however this did not affect his final position as the car behind him was more than 20 seconds behind. At the Belgian Grand Prix Grosjean qualified 7th on the grid. After a safe but difficult start Lotus choose to operate a one stop strategy on Grosjean's car. Later in the race he was sent off track by Sergio Pérez while the latter was attempting an overtake. Pérez received a drive through penalty for the incident. Grosjean finished the race in 8th position after being overtaken by Felipe Massa towards the end of the race. , At the Italian Grand Prix Grosjean qualified 13th as both Lotuses showed slow pace in practice. After a slow first stint and time lost in his single pit stop he came back to finish in 8th after many overtaking moves and resisting Lewis Hamilton on the last lap. At the Singapore Grand Prix Grosjean had a difficult weekend full of mechanical problems; and despite qualifying 3rd, he was forced to retire due to an engine issue while being in good position for a podium. At the Korean Grand Prix he qualified 4th and was moved up to third on the grid after Mark Webber received a 10 place grid penalty in Singapore. He took a good start in which he overtook Hamilton and he seemed to be nearly matching Vettel's pace. However the safety car coming in helped Kimi Räikkönen move back up in third and after a small mistake, Grosjean was overtaken by his team mate who finished 2nd behind Vettel while Grosjean secured his third podium of the season in 3rd position. The next weekend, at the Japanese Grand Prix in Suzuka, he qualified 4th. After a poor start by the Red Bulls on the front row, Grosjean took the lead into the first corner and showed good pace compared to the Red Bulls behind him, leading almost half the race. Sebastian Vettel passed him using DRS on the start-finish straight on lap 28, demoting Grosjean to 2nd; he was later overtaken by Vettel's teammate, Mark Webber , and finished 3rd for his second straight podium (and 2nd straight 3rd place finish). , In India , Grosjean failed to reach Q2 on medium tyres in order to save softer tyres; a bad strategic decision as he qualified 17th but had much higher potential. The next day he had a longer first stint with soft tyres in order to apply a one pit stop strategy that worked perfectly as he finished 3rd behind Vettel and Rosberg after overtaking Massa and then Räikkönen who forced him off the track on his first overtaking attempt. As Vettel clinched a 4th Drivers' World Championship in a row, Grosjean went to earn his 5th podium of the season. At Abu Dhabi , after qualifying 7th (and being promoted to 6th due to teammate Räikkönen's penalty), he had another strong start and strong race, finishing 4th – his first time outside of the podium in 4 races. At the United States Grand Prix , Grosjean had a good qualifying session and earned a 3rd spot on the grid behind the two Red Bull drivers, Vettel and Webber. On race day Grosjean had once again a strong start by overtaking Webber and nearly Vettel. By pitting last he even led one lap. He finished 2nd by holding off Webber behind him right until the end despite numerous overtaking attempts using the DRS by the Australian as Vettel went to win his record 8th victory in a row. , On 29 November 2013, it was confirmed that Grosjean would continue with Lotus in 2014.  , A new rule for the 2014 season allowed the drivers to pick a car number to use for their entire career. Grosjean was awarded his first choice of number 8. He explained his choice of number on his Facebook page: "Simply I like this number, plus it has some signification to me. My wife was born on 8 December, we started dating in 2008 and besides, to my eyes my son is the 8th wonder of the world. That's why I picked up number 8."   At the Hungarian Grand Prix Grosjean spun and crashed his car whilst following the safety car.  , ( key ) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , Grosjean married his long-term partner, Marion Jollès (who works for French TV channel TF1 as a motorsport reporter), at Chamonix on 27 June 2012.  On 29 July 2013 she gave birth to a son, Sacha. Their second son Simon was born on 16 May 2015.  , In 2014 Grosjean was featured in French disc jockey David Guetta 's music video titled " Dangerous ".   Luiz Felipe de Oliveira Nasr (born 21 August 1992) is a Brazilian racing driver . He was the 2009 Formula BMW Europe champion and the 2011 British Formula Three champion. , After a year as the official test driver for Williams in 2014 , he joined Sauber as a full-time Formula One driver in 2015 .   , , , Born in Brasília , DF , Nasr began karting in Brazil when he was seven years old. Between 2000 and 2007 he won several championship titles in Brazil.  , Nasr made his open-wheel racing debut in the final round of the 2008 Formula BMW Americas season at Interlagos , which supported the 2008 Brazilian Grand Prix , claiming a podium finish in the second race in a championship that was dominated by Alexander Rossi .  , Nasr moved to the European championship of Formula BMW in 2009 for EuroInternational . He finished 14 of the 16 races in the top two, won 6 races, 5 pole-positions and claimed the title by 104 points from team-mate Daniel Juncadella . As the championship was held by BMW , linked to Sauber in that season, Nasr was called to test a Sauber F1 car, but with BMW leaving F1, the test did not happen. , For the 2010 , Nasr moved into the British Formula Three Championship with Räikkönen Robertson Racing , joining a three-car team alongside the team's 2009 drivers Carlos Huertas and Daisuke Nakajima .  In addition to signing for the team, Nasr signed to Robertson Management, the organisation that manages the career of former Formula One world champion Kimi Räikkönen . Nasr finished the 2010 British Formula Three season in 5th position.  , Nasr signed with Carlin Motorsport for the 2011 Championship and won the Sunoco Rolex 24 at Daytona Challenge, a special joint racing programme among series in the United Kingdom that use Sunoco Racing Fuel. The winner of that challenge won a drive in the 2012 Rolex 24 at Daytona. He was third in the Daytona 24 Hour.  Nasr claimed the title of the 2011 British Formula Three season , 123 points ahead of his team mate, Kevin Magnussen . , In the 2012 Rolex 24 at Daytona , Nasr finished third overall and in class, driving a second generation Riley prototype for Michael Shank Racing. , Nasr signed with DAMS to race in the 2012 GP2 Series season with the support of Brazilian sponsors Banco do Brasil and Eike Batista 's OGX .  Nasr's best results were a 2nd place in Race 2 of the Belgian round and a 4th place in Race 1 of the German round. He was teamed with the experienced Davide Valsecchi , who won the drivers' championship; Nasr's tenth place in the standings meant DAMS won the teams' championship as well. He took four podium finishes, with a best finish of second at Spa , and was the second highest-placed rookie overall, behind James Calado . , For the 2013 GP2 Series season Nasr moved to Carlin , partnering British Jolyon Palmer . Nasr believed that he would be a title contender, alongside James Calado and Marcus Ericsson , and hoped to be driving an F1 car at the end of the year. Nasr finished the 2013 campaign 4th overall in the standings. , Nasr remained with Carlin for the 2014 season , partnering Colombian Julián Leal . He took his first GP2 win in the sprint race in Barcelona .  He achieved wins at the Red Bull Ring ,  Silverstone ,  and Spa-Francorchamps .  Throughout the season, he was involved in a fight for the championship with former teammate Jolyon Palmer, losing out in Russia .  Nasr finished third overall, after losing second place by five points, to rookie Stoffel Vandoorne at Yas Marina .  , It was confirmed on 22 February 2014 that Nasr would be joining Williams as the team's reserve driver, participating in three tests and five free practice sessions across the course of the season.  He made his first appearance in first practice in the Bahrain Grand Prix replacing Valtteri Bottas . [ citation needed ] , On 5 November 2014, it was announced that Nasr would drive for Sauber in 2015 .  In his first race with the team in Australia , Nasr finished in fifth position, the highest placing for a Brazilian driver making their Grand Prix début.   , Nasr lists his favourite hobbies as sports , fishing and mechanics ,  he cites Star Wars and the James Bond film series as his favourite films,  his favourite driver as Ayrton Senna ,  and his favourite circuit as Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps .  Felipe is the nephew of Amir Nasr, who owns one of the most successful South American Formula Three racing teams that helped with the progression of many Brazilian drivers in junior formulas, such as Hélio Castroneves , Vitor Meira , Antônio Pizzonia , Luciano Burti , Bruno Junqueira , Cristiano da Matta , Mario Haberfeld , Max Wilson , Átila Abreu and Sérgio Jimenez . Nasr's favourite musical artists include Johnny Cash , Bob Dylan and Dire Straits  Nasr is multilingual with the ability to speak Portuguese , English and Italian  , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicates fastest lap) , * Season in progress.  Sergio Pérez Mendoza ( Spanish   [se'rxio pe'res]   ( help · info ) ; born 26 January 1990)  also known as "Checo" Pérez , is a Mexican racing driver , currently driving for Force India . , Pérez was a member of the Ferrari Driver Academy until 2012. He also took his first Formula One podium at the 2012 Malaysian Grand Prix with Sauber , a drive which won him plaudits and fuelled speculation of a move to Ferrari in the near future.  However, Pérez later told reporters that he expected to stay with Sauber until at least the end of the 2012 season.  Due to his young age and performance, he has been referred to as "The Mexican Wunderkind ".  , Pérez joined McLaren for the 2013 season however the car failed to deliver the team a single podium finish. Subsequently for the 2014 season, the team decided to replace Pérez with Danish driver Kevin Magnussen very late into the season almost leaving Pérez without a seat.   In December 2013, it was announced that Force India had signed Pérez in a €15 million deal.  , , , Born in Guadalajara , Jalisco , Sergio Pérez is the youngest child of Antonio Pérez Garibay and Marilú Pérez ( née Mendoza); he also has an older sister Paola and an older brother Antonio Pérez.  who competes in the NASCAR Toyota Series , a stock car racing championship held in Mexico. , Both Pérez brothers are big football fans, stating that they thought about leaving car racing to play professionally. The Pérez brothers are friends of Mexican international Javier Hernández .  In an interview in 2012 for the official Formula One website, Pérez revealed that if he had not been a driver would have liked to be a lawyer .  , In November 2012, Pérez unveiled the Checo Pérez Foundation to support orphans and children with cancer; his sister Paola would also be involved with the project, as its President.  , Pérez began his career at the age of 6 years in karting in 1996.  In his first year of competition he achieved four victories in the junior category at the end of the year and claimed the runner-up spot in the category. In 1997, Pérez participated in the karting Youth Class, where he was the youngest driver in the category and earned a win, five podiums and finished fourth in the championship. , The following year, he returned to compete in the junior category, where he had eight wins; and at the end of the campaign, he became the youngest driver to become champion of the category. He also participated in several races in Shifter 125 cc, and competed in Master Kadets, where he finished on the podium. , In 1999, he raced in the 80 cc Shifter category, where he took three wins and finished third in the championship. Pérez also became the youngest driver to win a competition in the category, after obtaining special permission from the Federation to participate in the 80 cc Shifter. , In 2000, he raced in the Shifter 80 cc Championship, and also participated in three races in the Shifter 125 cc category which was part of the Telmex Challenge. However, Pérez was not satisfied with the results and the following season, was up for another championship, this time on the 125cc Shifter Regional, and once again was the youngest driver to compete in the category. With all these achievements, the Mexican driver caught the attention of scouts for Escuderia Telmex . , With six wins in 2002, Pérez finished as the national runner-up in the Shifter 125 cc category, and participated in the global race Shifter 80 cc, in Las Vegas, where qualified fifth and finished in 11th place. , In 2003, he was leading both championships in the 125 cc category, but withdrew from the last seven races, which proved to be a disappointment in his title aspirations. However, he finished in third place in Telmex Challenge, in addition to winning the Cup runner-up in Mexico. In the same year, he was also invited to attend the Easy Kart 125 Shootout, where he competed against drivers from around the world and managed to qualify in first place to eventually take the checkered flag, while he was the youngest in the category. , Pérez competed in the United States -based Skip Barber National Championship in 2004. Driving for a team sponsored by Mexican telecommunications company Telmex , he finished eleventh in the championship. , Pérez moved to Europe for 2005 to compete in the German Formula BMW ADAC series. Pérez was allowed to reside in a restaurant owned by his team manager for four months.  He finished fourteenth in the championship, driving for Team Rosberg , and improved to sixth position the following year. , In the 2006–07 A1 Grand Prix season , Pérez took part in a single round of the championship for A1 Team Mexico . He was the third-youngest driver to take part in the series. , Pérez switched to the British Formula Three Championship for 2007 . Pérez relocated his personal residence to Oxford .  He competed in the National Class – for older chassis – with the T-Sport team, winning the championship by a comfortable margin. In the process, he won two-thirds of the races and a similar proportion of pole positions , and finished all but two races on the podium. , For 2008 , he and T-Sport graduated to the premier International Class of the championship, where he was one of the few drivers to be equipped with a Mugen Honda engine. After leading the championship early in the season, he eventually finished fourth in the drivers' standings. , Pérez drove for the Campos Grand Prix team in the 2008–09 GP2 Asia Series season , partnering Russian driver Vitaly Petrov . He is the first Mexican driver to compete at this level of motorsport since Giovanni Aloi took part in International Formula 3000 in 1990 . He won his first GP2 Asia Series race at Sakhir , winning from lights-to-flag in the sprint race having started from pole position . He added a second win at Losail , during the sprint race of the night meeting in Qatar . , He moved to Arden International for the main 2009 GP2 Series season , driving alongside fellow Formula Three graduate Edoardo Mortara . Pérez finished twelfth in the standings, with a best result of second coming at Valencia . In the off-season, he contested two rounds of the 2009–10 GP2 Asia Series for Barwa Addax , ahead of a 2010 main series campaign with the team.  He won five races, and finished second in the standings behind Pastor Maldonado .  , On 4 October 2010, Sauber announced that Pérez would join the team in 2011 , replacing Nick Heidfeld . Sauber subsequently announced a partnership with Pérez's sponsor Telmex .  Pérez became the fifth Mexican to compete in Formula One, and the first since Héctor Rebaque competed between 1977 and 1981. Pérez also became a member of the Ferrari Driver Academy scheme in October 2010.  , He passed the chequered flag in seventh place in his first race, the Australian Grand Prix , impressing observers by stopping to change tyres only once, becoming the only driver in the field to make fewer than two stops.  However, both Sauber cars were subsequently disqualified for infringing technical regulations.  Pérez failed to repeat the result in Malaysia where body parts flew off Sébastien Buemi 's Toro Rosso car and into the electrical system of Pérez's Sauber, forcing his retirement. The Chinese Grand Prix saw him start in 12th position and he struggled during the race as well as making contact with several drivers en route to 17th. He followed that up with fourteenth in Turkey , before a ninth place finish in Spain  – ahead of team-mate Kamui Kobayashi in tenth – to take his first Formula One points. , During the third part of qualifying for the Monaco Grand Prix , Pérez lost control of his car upon exiting the circuit's tunnel section, swung to the right and crashed into the barrier, before sliding across the chicane and hitting the TecPro barrier with a heavy side impact.  Pérez was seen holding his hands around his head in an attempt to protect it just before the final impact. The session was suspended, and marshals and medical personnel extricated Pérez from his car. A Sauber team spokesman confirmed that Pérez was conscious and able to talk after the accident, and had been taken to the circuit's medical centre.  He suffered a sprained thigh and concussion, and did not take part in the race the following day, on medical grounds.  After taking part in the first practice session of the Canadian Grand Prix , Pérez did not feel well enough and decided not to take any further part, and was replaced by Pedro de la Rosa .  , Pérez returned for the European Grand Prix and finished eleventh after attempting to run the race on a one-stop strategy. Pérez took a career best seventh at the British Grand Prix and eleventh in Germany . After a fifteenth place in Hungary , Pérez retired in Belgium with suspension failure. This was followed by a gearbox failure while running seventh in Italy , before he scored a point in Singapore after losing ninth place to Felipe Massa . In Japan he took eighth place, before a sixteenth place finish in Korea , tenth in India , and an eleventh place finish in Abu Dhabi . Pérez finished sixteenth in the Drivers' Championship with fourteen points. , On 28 July, it was announced that Pérez would remain with Sauber into the 2012 season, alongside team-mate Kobayashi.  On 13 September, Pérez tested for Ferrari as part of the Ferrari Driver Academy in a Ferrari F60 , Ferrari's car from the 2009 season. Pérez conducted the test with fellow academy member Jules Bianchi .  , Pérez started the season with eighth place at the Australian Grand Prix , losing several places on the final lap due to excessively-worn tyres.  In the second round at Malaysia , he went on to battle with Fernando Alonso for the win. In the dying laps of the race he was able to close the gap to 0.5 seconds, but was not able to make the pass as he went wide at turn 14 and fell back, finishing 2.2 seconds behind Alonso in second. Many observers praised the performance of Pérez during the race despite his late-race error,    taking Sauber's best result as an independent team.  In China , Pérez qualified a career-best eighth, but finished the race in eleventh place after problems with pit strategy and also his car's clutch .  , He finished outside the points in the next three races – despite recording the fastest lap in Monaco   – before Pérez achieved his second career podium at the Canadian Grand Prix , finishing the race in third place, having started fifteenth.  , In the European Grand Prix , Pérez qualified in fifteenth place, citing a handling imbalance and the car feeling "unpredictable" as reasons for the gap to Kobayashi in seventh.  He improved to ninth place in the race, but raised poor qualifying form as an issue for the team.  On lap 12 of the British Grand Prix , Pérez collided with Pastor Maldonado , forcing him to retire with broken suspension. He later criticised the Venezuelan , claiming "Everybody has concerns about him" before adding, "He is a driver who doesn't know that we are risking our lives and has no respect at all".  Maldonado received a double penalty in the form of a reprimand and a €10,000 fine after the race. Pérez later added: "Just look at the last races. He ruined Hamilton's race (in Valencia), he ruined my race in Monaco by doing stupid things. I don't understand why the stewards don't take a serious decision with him. With Pastor they're not doing anything that will teach him a lesson."  , For the German Grand Prix , Pérez started in 17th position but was able to make his way through the field, and ultimately finished the race in 6th place.  At the Belgian Grand Prix , Pérez made it into Q3 and qualified fifth fastest. A penalty for Maldonado subsequently promoted Pérez to a career-best fourth on the grid.  In the race, Pérez was forced to retire in the first turn of the first lap after Romain Grosjean caused a spectacular accident. Grosjean crashed his car into Lewis Hamilton creating a domino effect which involved five cars. Also involved in the accident were, the championship leader Fernando Alonso and Pérez's team-mate Kamui Kobayashi .  , Pérez took his third podium at the Italian Grand Prix . On Saturday, he failed to qualify for Q3, and was twelfth on the grid. On Sunday, he put in a storming drive to climb through the field to second place, passing on track, among others, Kimi Räikkönen , Nico Rosberg , Felipe Massa and Alonso. Unlike most of the drivers in the field, Pérez started the race on hard tyres and changed to the medium tyres on lap 29,  allowing him to lead the Grand Prix for five laps. As a result, Pérez and his car's outstanding tyre management got him well into the points, and ultimately, to a podium finish. Ultimately, Pérez finished the season in tenth place in the Drivers' Championship with 66 points, 6 more than team-mate Kobayashi.  , On 28 September 2012, Lewis Hamilton 's decision to leave McLaren for Mercedes in 2013 was announced, and Pérez was subsequently confirmed as Hamilton's replacement.  He also replaced Hamilton in McLaren's cartoon Tooned .  , In the season-opening race in Australia , Pérez qualified 15th and finished in 11th position, later describing the weekend as "difficult" for himself and the team as a whole.  Pérez started the Malaysian Grand Prix from ninth on the grid, and finished the race in the same position, scoring his first points for McLaren. Pérez also achieved the fastest lap of the race, having pitted for fresh tyres.   , In the Bahrain GP , he started 12th on the grid and finishing 6th ahead of Ferrari 's Fernando Alonso (8th) and his teammate Jenson Button (10th), with whom he had a fierce duel in which they touched on a couple of occasions, increasing the competition between drivers in McLaren on the following races.  , After the Bahrain Grand Prix, Jenson Button was quoted with the following on Pérez's driving style: , I've raced with many team-mates over the years and with quite an aggressive team-mate in Lewis , but I'm not used to driving down the straight and then my team-mate coming along and wiggling his wheels at me and banging wheels with me at 300km/h. I've had some tough fights in F1 but not quite as dirty as that. That's something you do in karting and normally you grow out of it but that's obviously not the case with Checo [Pérez]. Soon something serious will happen so he has to calm down. He's extremely quick and he did a great job today but some of it is unnecessary and an issue when you are doing those speeds. , At the 2013 Monaco Grand Prix Pérez performed several aggressive overtaking moves, before retiring after colliding with Kimi Räikkönen. Following the incident Räikkönen said that Pérez should be "punched in the face".  Pérez recorded a season-best fifth place finish in India , finishing four seconds shy of the podium, a result that left him "extremely satisfied".  , Pérez confirmed on 13 November 2013 that he would be leaving McLaren at the end of the season to be replaced by Kevin Magnussen .  On 12 December 2013 (exactly a month after it was announced he would leave McLaren), Force India confirmed Pérez would join Nico Hülkenberg in their driver line-up for 2014 in a 15 million Euro deal. , On 12 December 2013, Pérez had his drive for Force India in 2014 confirmed.  In the Australian Grand Prix , he finished 11th but was moved up to 10th to get his first point for Force India due to Daniel Ricciardo being disqualified for breaching fuel limits. He failed to start the Malaysian Grand Prix , after his car encountered gearbox issues prior to the start of the race. Nevertheless a week later in the Bahrain Grand Prix , he was able to score Force India's first podium since 2009 ,  holding off Ricciardo's Red Bull for a third place finish.  At the Chinese Grand Prix , Pérez started 16th and after gaining four places at the start, was able to overtake both McLarens and Daniil Kvyat 's Toro Rosso to finish 9th. Outqualifying his teammate for a second time, Pérez started in tenth position for the Monaco Grand Prix however a first lap collision with Jenson Button meant an early retirement for the first time in the season. At the Canadian Grand Prix , Pérez was again fighting for another podium finish until the car suffered braking issues, later resulting in losing the third place position to both Red Bulls. On the last lap he was involved in a collision with Felipe Massa , who crashed into the back of his Force India sending both cars heavily into the barriers. Pérez was subsequently given a five-place grid penalty for the next race, as the stewards decided he changed his racing line, causing Massa to crash into him.  At the Austrian Grand Prix , Pérez set his third fastest lap of his career whilst also giving Force India their third fastest lap in their history. , On 7 November 2014, before the Brazilian Grand Prix , Force India announced that Pérez would remain with the team for the 2015 season.  Pérez stated that contract negotiations were "ongoing", in regards to a further contract extension. The deal was officially confirmed at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , with Pérez signing a new two-year contract, until the end of the 2016 season.  , Perez's helmet design is based on a Mexican flag. It changes every season. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap)  Pastor Rafael Maldonado Motta (born 9 March 1985) is a Venezuelan racing driver, currently competing in Formula One for Lotus F1 .  , Before making his Formula One début with the Williams team in 2011, he won the 2010 GP2 Series championship. He became the first Venezuelan to win a Formula One Grand Prix when he won the 2012 Spanish Grand Prix , for Williams, from his first pole position. , , , Born in Maracay , Venezuela ,  Maldonado's first experience of formula racing was in Italy in 2003. He competed in the Italian Formula Renault Championship with Cram Competition, and was classified seventh in the drivers' championship. His notable results included three podium finishes and one pole position.  Cram Competition also entered one round of the German Formula Renault Championship at Oschersleben .  , In 2004, Maldonado ran a dual programme in Italian and Formula Renault 2000 Eurocup with Cram Competition . He won the Italian title, with eight wins and six pole positions from seventeen starts.  In the European championship, he was classified eighth overall, with two wins.  Maldonado also found the time to enter one round of the now defunct Formula Renault V6 Eurocup at Spa-Francorchamps , with a best finish of fifth place.  , In November 2004, Maldonado was given an opportunity to test with the Minardi Formula One team at Misano in Italy.  The team's former owner, Giancarlo Minardi , was present at the test and commented positively about Maldonado's performance.  , In 2005, Maldonado progressed out of Formula Renault, but did not get the opportunity to complete a full season in any one series. He made four starts in the Italian F3000 Championship with Sighinolfi Auto Racing, in which one race win at the Autodromo dell'Umbria was enough to finish ninth overall.  He also entered nine races (and made seven starts) in the Spanish -based World Series by Renault , with a best finish of seventh.  However, his participation in the WSR was marred by a four-race ban for dangerous driving. He failed to slow down at the scene of an accident at Monaco , despite the presence of warning flags, and struck and seriously injured a marshal, for which he got a lifetime ban at Monaco.   , Maldonado secured a full-time drive in the Formula Renault 3.5 Series with Draco Racing in 2006 . He was classified third overall, with three race wins, six further podium finishes, and five pole positions.   , In a season that was marked by controversy Maldonado could have won the title were it not for a disqualification from first place at Misano for a technical infringement.  Draco Racing lodged an appeal and the results of the championship remained provisional until Italy's National Court of Appeal for Motorsport upheld the stewards' decision at a hearing in January 2007.  The lost fifteen points would have been enough to move him up from third to first in the standings, ahead of Alx Danielsson and Borja García . , Maldonado's performances in FR3.5 were enough to attract the interest of GP2 teams, and he signed a contract to drive for Trident Racing in 2007 after a successful test in late 2006.  He took his first victory in only his fourth race in the series with a commanding win at Monaco. However, he had to miss the final four rounds of the season after breaking a collarbone during training, leaving him outside the championship top 10.  , He moved to the Piquet Sports team for 2008 , his second year in the series. At midseason he had two poles and two podiums. He had a farcical sprint race in the wet at Silverstone  – he stalled on the dummy grid, picked up a penalty for speeding in the pitlane as he joined the race, another penalty for passing under yellow flags, and crashed into Adrián Vallés and Kamui Kobayashi on the final lap. He started at the back of the grid for the Hungary feature race, but he moved up to finish fifth after staying out for longer than any other driver, and setting a succession of quick laps on these worn tyres. Four podium finishes—including a win at Spa —in the final six races saw him rise to fifth place in the drivers' championship by the end of the season. , He signed to drive for the ART Grand Prix team during the 2009 season .  As part of the deal, he also joined the team for three rounds of the 2008–09 GP2 Asia Series season .  Maldonado was often overshadowed by team-mate and 2009 champion Nico Hülkenberg , but Maldonado still finished sixth overall, helping ART to the teams title. He competed in the first round of the 2009 Euroseries 3000 season at the Autódromo Internacional do Algarve for Teamcraft Motorsport to gain experience of the track for the GP2 season finale . Maldonado won the first race, having started from second position.  , Maldonado drove for the Rapax Team in the 2010 GP2 Series season alongside Luiz Razia . He clinched the Championship in the penultimate event at Monza , Maldonado won six consecutive feature races on his way to winning the title (from Istanbul Park to Spa ), which also took him to a total of ten race victories in GP2,  which is a series record.  Maldonado finished sixteen points ahead of Barwa Addax 's Sergio Pérez . Rapax also won the Teams Championship, five points ahead of Barwa Addax. , Maldonado was a target for a Campos Meta seat in 2010 . Campos team principal Adrian Campos said that Bruno Senna 's team mate could be Pedro de la Rosa , Vitaly Petrov or Maldonado,  but the team's financial problems and change of ownership changed the situation, and Karun Chandhok got the drive.  It was then reported that Maldonado was close to signing a deal to be test and reserve driver for the Stefan Grand Prix team, which attempted to compete in the 2010 season following the withdrawal of the US F1 Team , which left a theoretical space for another new team.  Stefan was barred from competing in the 2010 season.  , Towards the end of the 2010 season, Maldonado was linked to the Williams team for 2011 , replacing former GP2 team-mate Nico Hülkenberg alongside Rubens Barrichello . He took part in the end-of-season young driver test at the Yas Marina Circuit in Abu Dhabi , driving for Williams and Hispania Racing (the rebranded Campos team). On 15 November, Williams confirmed that Hülkenberg had been dropped from the team's 2011 line-up, and Maldonado was duly announced as his replacement on 1 December.   In addition to his on-track record, Maldonado also brings sponsorship from the Venezuelan government (through the state-owned PDVSA oil company) to the team.  , Maldonado retired from his first race, the Australian Grand Prix , due to transmission problems. In the Malaysian Grand Prix , he failed to reach Q2 in qualifying and again dropped out of the race. He recorded his first finish in China , in eighteenth place. At the Spanish Grand Prix he reached Q3 for the first time, eventually qualifying in ninth position for the race. He made it into Q3 again in Monaco, qualifying eighth, and in the race was lying sixth with five laps remaining, when he collided with Lewis Hamilton , taking him out of the race. He then spun out of a very wet race in Canada . He then continued to have impressive qualifying pace with poor race pace at Britain , Germany , and Hungary , including a drive-through penalty at the latter for speeding in the pit lane. At the Belgian Grand Prix at Spa in qualifying, Maldonado was involved in an incident with Lewis Hamilton on an in-lap after Hamilton squeezed by him when both were on a hot lap. Maldonado appeared to swipe across Hamilton as they headed down to Eau Rouge. Maldonado received a five-place grid penalty for his actions and Hamilton a reprimand. But in the race he scored his first point in Formula One with a tenth-place finish. Maldonado did not score any more points for the rest of the season, nor did he reach Q3 for the rest of the season. His poor end to the season was magnified in Abu Dhabi ; where he qualified 17th and started 23rd (after a ten-place grid penalty for using a 9th engine), and served a drive-through, and later a 30-second time penalty after the race, both for ignoring blue flags. , Maldonado finished nineteenth in the Drivers' Championship and on 1 December 2011, it was confirmed that he would be retained by Williams for the 2012 season.  , Maldonado began the 2012 season alongside fellow South American racer, Bruno Senna , for Williams . He started the season with promising pace, qualifying eighth for the Australian Grand Prix . In the race, he was running strongly until he crashed out on the final lap, fighting with Fernando Alonso for fifth position. In the Malaysian Grand Prix , Maldonado retired in the closing stages of the race while running in the points. He scored his first points of the season by finishing eighth in China . A puncture ended his race in Bahrain , after he qualified in seventeenth position. At the Spanish Grand Prix , Maldonado qualified second, next to Lewis Hamilton on the front row of the grid after strong pace from his Williams car during the race weekend. Maldonado was later promoted to his first pole position in his Formula One career after Hamilton was excluded from the results of qualifying, due to having insufficient fuel in his car.  Maldonado was beaten to the first corner by Fernando Alonso , but regained the lead after the second round of pit stops. Maldonado held his lead after the third pit-stop phase, and held off Alonso and Kimi Räikkönen to win, becoming the first Venezuelan driver to finish on a Grand Prix podium in the process.  During post-race celebrations, a fire engulfed the Williams pit, and Maldonado was seen carrying his cousin to safety.  , At Monaco , he received a ten-place grid penalty for causing an avoidable collision with Sergio Pérez during a practice session (which subsequently may have led to Pérez's crash in qualifying, which caused the session to be red-flagged) and an additional five-place penalty for a gearbox change, meaning he started 24th and last on the grid.  He retired due to an accident at the start of the race, when he ran into the back of Pedro de la Rosa 's HRT who also retired with rear wing damage. At the end of second qualifying session in Canada , Maldonado crashed into the infamous Wall of Champions at the end of the lap in which he a set the quickest sector 1 time and was on course to bump Jenson Button out of Q3.  Maldonado finished the qualifying session 17th and started the race from 22nd position after a five-place grid penalty after he was forced to change his gearbox due to damage suffered in the crash.  Maldonado made good progress in the first stint, running as high as tenth mid-race, however after his pitstop he dropped back to seventeenth and finished the race in thirteenth place. , In Europe , Maldonado qualified third but dropped to fifth after the start and tenth after pitting under a safety car halfway through the race. Maldonado then passed several drivers including Red Bull 's Mark Webber and was running fourth in the closing stages of the race. On lap 56 (the penultimate lap of the race), Maldonado was battling with McLaren 's Lewis Hamilton for third place, however Hamilton forced Maldonado off the track at turn 12 and Maldonado returned to track and collided with Hamilton in turn 13, with Maldonado losing steering on the high curbs. Maldonado was able to continue and finished tenth with a broken front wing; Hamilton retired after he crashed into the tyre wall. Maldonado blamed Hamilton for the incident,  however the stewards gave Maldonado a 20-second time penalty which dropped Maldonado out of the points to twelfth position.  Maldonado qualified seventh in the British Grand Prix and ran as high as sixth before a pit-stop on lap 11 which dropped him into the midfield. Maldonado was subsequently involved in a collision with Sergio Pérez , which dropped him to last while Pérez retired on the spot. Maldonado eventually finished sixteenth, a lap down on winner Mark Webber . In television interviews, Pérez was damning of Maldonado's driving, calling him too dangerous and claiming he ruined other people's races. Pérez also called for the stewards to take tough action against Maldonado.  Maldonado said the collision was a racing incident.  The stewards penalised Maldonado by a reprimand and a fine of € 10,000 with two penalties given due to the "serious nature" of the incident.  , In Germany , Maldonado qualified a strong sixth in the wet qualifying, however he lost pace from lap 12 of the race when he hit debris which damaged his car, and finished the race in fifteenth. In Hungary , Maldonado qualified eighth, but a poor start dropped him to twelfth after lap one and thirteenth after the pitstops. Maldonado received a drive-through penalty for "causing an avoidable collision" in an overtaking move on Force India 's Paul di Resta for twelfth; he dropped behind di Resta after the penalty and finished thirteenth. Maldonado was eleventh in the World Championship on 29 points as Formula One entered a five-week summer break, with his only points finishes coming from his win in Spain and eighth in China. , At the Belgian GP Maldonado received a further three penalties. He was demoted from third on the grid to sixth for impeding Nico Hülkenberg in Q1.  He then jumped the start of the race, and was deemed to cause a collision with Marussia's Timo Glock , resulting in two separate 5-place grid penalties, so was demoted by 10 places in Monza .  Maldonado started the race in 22nd and finished in 11th, just 0.5 seconds behind Senna, who finished in the final points-paying position. In Singapore he qualified second, alongside pole-sitter Lewis Hamilton. In the race, he was in contention for a podium finish, retiring on lap 37 due to a hydraulic failure. In Japan Maldonado qualified 14th, starting 12th and finished the race 8th, his first points finish since he won in Spain nearly five months earlier. , Williams' form took a turn for the worse in Korea and Maldonado finished in 14th place after qualifying 15th. He once again managed to get into Q3 in India , but a mistake on his final attempt left him 9th on the grid.  His race was disappointing as he got his tyre punctured by Kobayashi after having passed the Sauber driver. He eventually finished 16th.  Maldonado returned to the sharp end of the grid in Abu Dhabi where he qualified fourth, which became third as Vettel was excluded from qualifying due to having insufficient fuel in his car.  He kept third place at the start and was running at the same pace as cars around him until his KERS unit failed after the first safety car period of the race. Without KERS his car lost pace and he fell back to eventually finish fifth.  Maldonado finished the season with a ninth place from ninth on the grid in the USA and a DNF after a second lap crash from sixteenth from the grid after a ten place penalty for a third reprimand after missing a weighbridge check in Brazil , as he finished fifteenth in the Championship on 45 points, the lowest Championship standing for a driver who won a race during an F1 season. Maldonado also received 14 penalties throughout the season, five ahead of Sergio Pérez and Michael Schumacher , Maldonado's grid penalties for both driving offences and gearbox changes totaled to 38 grid places, 1.8 per race.  , On 28 November 2012, Maldonado was retained by Williams for the 2013 season, where he is partnered by Finnish rookie Valtteri Bottas .  At the start of the season Maldonado commented that the new FW35 chassis was a step back towards where the team were in 2011 .  He failed to make it out of the first qualifying session at the first race, the Australian Grand Prix , and qualified in 17th position,  one place behind Bottas. Maldonado spun out in the race after 24 laps and consequently retired.  At the following round in Malaysia , Maldonado did make the second qualifying session but was caught out by the rain meaning he failed to set a time and started the race 16th. He was running in 15th place in the closing stages of the race when he retired again – his third in succession in Malaysia – due to a KERS failure.  At the 2013 Monaco Grand Prix , Maldonado and Chilton collided when Maldonado overtook Chilton who stated he had not seen the Lotus next to him entering the corner, this brought out the red flag as the barrier became dislodged in the incident. Maldonado was not hurt in the crash. In the week following the announcement that Maldonado would not remain with the Williams team in 2014 , Maldonado accused his team of sabotage at the United States Grand Prix .  , On 29 November 2013, Maldonado was signed by the Lotus F1 team, to partner Romain Grosjean in 2014 .  He drove with number 13,  which was barely used in Formula One before.  Maldonado's engineer was Mark Slade, who previously engineered for Kimi Räikkönen. , At the Bahrain Grand Prix , Maldonado collided with Esteban Gutiérrez after making a pit stop, causing Gutiérrez's car to roll. For causing the incident, Maldonado was given a ten-second stop-go penalty during the race, and after the race, three points on his FIA Super Licence , and a five-place grid penalty for the Chinese Grand Prix .  At the Chinese Grand Prix , Maldonado crashed into a wall in the pit lane during free practice.  At the Spanish Grand Prix Maldonado crashed into the wall in the first part of qualifying.  During the race the following day, Maldonado was deemed to have caused a collision when trying to pass Marcus Ericsson , and was given a five-second stop-go penalty.  He was also given a point on his FIA Super Licence after the race, his fourth of the season. At Silverstone Maldonado again collided with Esteban Gutiérrez , launching his car spectacularly into the air although he was able to finish the race. , In Hungary Maldonado lost control of his Lotus while heading to the grid, and in the race he crashed in to Jules Bianchi when attempting an overtake. At Spa-Francorchamps , Maldonado crashed during the second free practice session; the force of the impact required Maldonado to have a precautionary check-up at the circuit's medical centre.  At the Singapore Grand Prix , Maldonado crashed during the second free practice session, causing a red flag.  At the United States Grand Prix , Maldonado received a penalty for speeding behind the safety car, and another penalty for speeding in the pit lane, but still came home in ninth,  registering his first – and ultimately, only – points-scoring finish of the 2014 season. He finished the season 16th in the Drivers' Championship. , Maldonado continued to drive for Lotus in the 2015 season. In March 2015, before the season started, the Lotus car suffered a brake failure causing him to crash during testing at Catalunya .  At the Australian Grand Prix , Maldonado was hit from behind by Felipe Nasr and crashed out of the race at the second corner of the first lap after he overtook 3 cars at the start and was in 6th position.  At the Malaysian Grand Prix , Maldonado's car suffered a puncture after being hit from behind again, this time by Valtteri Bottas, and he was later given a 10-second time penalty for speeding behind the safety car.  He accrued three penalty points on his licence for the infringement, taking his tally to eight within the previous year.  At the Chinese Grand Prix , Maldonado suffered a brake issue that caused him to went off when entering the pits, and had to be recovered by the marshals, and just a couple of laps later he spun the car.  On lap 49 Button rammed into Maldonado in a braking zone and spun. After this incident and the issue's with the brakes on Maldonado's car he was forced to retire.  At the start of the Bahrain Grand Prix , Maldonado parked his car on the wrong grid slot, so was given a 5-second penalty.  On the first lap of the race Maldonado was hit front behind by Max Verstappen damaging Verstappen's front wing, and Maldonado also touched Massa, damaging the floor on Massa's car.  Following the race, Maldonado admitted that his reputation for crashing comes because he takes more risks as he approaches the limits.  At the Spanish Grand Prix Maldonado was again involved in an incident and hit by his team mate that had just returned on the track after missing the braking point on the second lap, resulting Maldonado's car picking up damage to its rear wing.  Despite the damage Maldonado did not lose pace and was initially able to continue in 7th place. However during his pitstop the team inspected the rear wing and Maldonado was forced to retire from the race. At the Monaco Grand Prix , Maldonado was not able to profit from his season's best qualifying result of 8th because of an issue with the brakes from the start of the race; Maldonado and Verstappen collided on the sixth lap, and Maldonado was subsequently forced to retire on the seventh lap with another brake failure.  , Whilst driving in Formula One, Maldonado gained 4 penalty points in the 2014 season up to the British Grand Prix , only equalled by Jules Bianchi . He was also the most reprimanded Formula One driver in 2012 , a clear 5 points ahead of his nearest rival, Michael Schumacher . In 2013 Maldonado also had 5 driver related reprimands, ranging from speeding in the pit-lane, to causing collisions. , * Season in progress. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , Maldonado is an outspoken political figure, which is rare in the racing world. He considers himself a socialist and was a friend of the late Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez .  He was one of the guards of honour at Chávez's funeral.  , Maldonado married Venezuelan journalist Gabriela Tarkanyi on 15 December 2012, in Canaima, Venezuela . He and his wife had a baby girl named Victoria in September 2013.   Max Emilian Verstappen ( Dutch pronunciation: [mɑks eːˈmiliɑn vɛrˈstɑpən] ; born 30 September 1997)  is a Belgian-Dutch racing driver who competes under the Dutch flag in Formula One with the Scuderia Toro Rosso racing team. Verstappen is the youngest World Championship Grand Prix driver in the history of the sport, having made his début aged 7008550821600000000♠ 17 years, 166 days, at the 2015 Australian Grand Prix . He is the son of former F1 driver Jos Verstappen . , , , Verstappen's family has a long association with motor sports. His father, Jos Verstappen , is a former Formula One driver. , Although he was born in the Belgian town of Hasselt to a Dutch father and Belgian mother,  lives in Belgium and travels with a Belgian passport, Verstappen decided to compete with a Dutch racing licence as he spent most of his karting time surrounded by Dutch people while growing up in Maaseik , a Belgian town at the Dutch border.  , Verstappen began karting at age 4½. He competed in the Mini Junior championship of his home province of Limburg (Belgium).  In 2006, Verstappen graduated to the Rotax Max Minimax class and won the Belgian championship.  In 2007, Verstappen won the Dutch Minimax championship.  Racing in a CRG kart entered by his father, Verstappen won the Dutch and Belgian Minimax championship as well as the Belgian Cadet championship.   , In 2009, Verstappen joined Team Pex Racing , a CRG customer team. That year, he won the Flemish Minimax championship and the Belgian KF5 championship.   In 2010, Verstappen stepped up to international karting. He was signed by CRG to race in their factory team at world and European championships. At the KF3 World Cup, Verstappen finished second to the more experienced Alexander Albon .  Verstappen beat Albon at the WSK Euro Series. He also won the WSK World Series, beating Robert Vişoiu .  , In 2011, Verstappen won the WSK Euro Series in an Parilla -powered CRG.  In 2012, Verstappen was picked for the Intrepid Driver Program to race in the KF2 and KZ2 classes. He won the WSK Master Series in the KF2 class, beating CRG driver Felice Tiene .  Verstappen won the South Garda Winter Cup in the KF2 class, beating Dennis Olsen and Antonio Fuoco .   , At the end of 2012, it was announced that Verstappen would leave Intrepid. After a short stint with CRG-built Zanardi karts, Verstappen returned to the factory CRG team.  He competed at the SKUSA SuperNationals in the KZ2 class in a CRG, finishing 21st. In 2013, Verstappen won the European KF and KZ championships. At the age of 15, Verstappen won the 2013 World KZ championship at Varennes-sur-Allier, France, in KZ1, the highest karting category. , Verstappen's first experience in a racing car was at the Pembrey Circuit on October 11, 2013. He drove 160 laps in a Barazi-Epsilon FR2.0-10 Formula Renault car. The car was provided by Dutch team Manor MP Motorsport .  In December 2013, Verstappen tested a Dallara F311 Formula 3 car run by Motopark Academy . Another Formula Renault test came in December at Circuito de Jerez . Driving for Josef Kaufmann Racing , Verstappen went faster than Formula Renault regulars like Steijn Schothorst and Matt Parry .  At the Circuit Ricardo Tormo near Valencia , Verstappen set a faster time than more experienced drivers including Tatiana Calderon and Eddie Cheever III .  , On January 16, 2014, it was announced Verstappen would make his racing debut in the Florida Winter Series .  , In 2014, Verstappen drove in the FIA European Formula 3 Championship for Van Amersfoort Racing .  He finished his maiden car racing season third, behind champion Esteban Ocon and runner-up Tom Blomqvist . , In August 2014, Verstappen joined the Red Bull Junior Team , having also considered an offer from Mercedes to join their driver development programme.  Six days later, he was confirmed as one of Scuderia Toro Rosso 's drivers for the 2015 season.  It was confirmed that Carlos Sainz Jr. would be Verstappen's teammate, following Daniil Kvyat 's promotion to Red Bull Racing . Verstappen chose 33 as his race number. , By taking part in the first free practice at the 2014 Japanese Grand Prix , Verstappen became the youngest driver to take part in a Grand Prix weekend, as part of his preparation for a full-time place with Scuderia Toro Rosso in 2015.  , In January 2015, the FIA launched a new super licence system for Formula One, raising the age limit to 18 from the 2016 season onwards.  Verstappen became the youngest driver to start a World Championship raceby joining the sport a year before this licence restriction, in his Grand Prix début as a full-time driver at the 2015 Australian Grand Prix at the age of 7008550821600000000♠ 17 years, 166 days – breaking Jaime Alguersuari 's existing record by almost two years.  In this first race, Verstappen won points-scoring positions until he was forced to retire due to an engine failure.  However, at the subsequent race in Malaysia , Verstappen qualified sixth and finished the race in seventh place, scoring his first Formula One points aged 7008552031200000000♠ 17 years, 180 days, breaking the record of youngest driver to score World Championship points .  Since then, he has failed to finish with points in China , due to engine failure in the last lap, Bahrain , due to electrical issues, Spain , settling for 11th, and Monaco , as a result of a collision with Romain Grosjean . , * Season in progress. , ( key ) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicates fastest lap)  Carlos Sainz Vázquez de Castro   audio   ( help · info ) , known as Carlos Sainz, Jr.   audio   ( help · info ) or simply Carlos Sainz , (born 1 September 1994) is a Spanish Formula One racing driver and the son of former double World Rally Champion Carlos Sainz . In 2012 Sainz Jr. raced in the British and European Formula 3 championships for Carlin .  He raced for DAMS in Formula Renault 3.5 in 2014 winning the championship. , On 28 November 2014, it was announced that he will drive for Scuderia Toro Rosso in the 2015 Formula One season .  He scored points on his début at the 2015 Australian Grand Prix , finishing in ninth position. , , , Born in Madrid , Sainz began his career in karting . In 2008 he won the Asia-Pacific KF3 title, as well as finishing runner-up in the Spanish Championship.  In 2009 he won the prestigious Junior Monaco Kart Cup , and was runner-up in the European KF3 Championship.  , Sainz raced in Formula BMW Europe in 2010 with the EuroInternational team. He is also part of the Red Bull Junior Team programme. He made his Formula BMW début during a guest drive in the Formula BMW Pacific series at Sepang . Because he was a guest driver, he was ineligible to score points, however his first races in Malaysia went very well, as he managed to get second place at the opening race. That impressive debut followed with 4th place. On the following race day, he retired in the first race but won the second race. It was this impressive start which got him a place at the Red Bull Junior Team. Doctor Helmut Marko applauded Sainz and his strong start to a great career in motor racing. He came 7th in the following race but yet again amazed everybody by winning again. He missed the next races in China but came back in Singapore. He finished in 6th in the first race and 2nd in the second race. This denied anyone who thought he was only good at the Malaysian track. He missed the Japanese races but shortly returned to the season finale in Macau to win. Overall, in 9 races he achieved 3 pole positions, 2 wins and 2 fastest laps. , In Formula BMW Europe, he started his career in that series with a podium position of 3rd and 6th place at the circuit de Catalunya. At Zandvoort, he took 5th and 2nd place. At Valencia he scored a lowly 7th and 10th place to take 18 points out of the possible 60 which Jack Harvey took to lead the championship. A weekend at Silverstone saw him take 3rd place and a victory in the following race, his first that season. Hockenheim saw him take 11th and 6th place. A 4th and a podium position of 3rd enlightened his championship hopes but Robin Frijns was on a charge, scoring a podium position in every race bar 3, two he finished in 4th. A double retirement at Spa put an end to his championship dreams. An 8th and 6th at the season finale at Monza followed. He finished the season 4th with 227 points. , Sainz also competed in the UK Formula Renault Winter Cup, finishing 6th in the first race and retiring from the second race at Snetterton. , During the 2012 season, Sainz raced in both British and Euroseries Formula 3 championships. He won five races and finished nine times on the podium, scoring a pole position, in the British championship, finishing in sixth position. He just scored two podiums and two pole positions in the Euroseries championship, in the first venue, finishing in ninth position overall. , In 2013, Sainz signed with Arden to compete in the GP3 series. After a bad weekend in Barcelona, where he was penalised during the qualifying session, he finished in third position in the sprint race in Valencia, after a fifth position in the first race. Another bad weekend followed in Britain, although he finished in the points in both races in Germany. , Sainz raced in Formula Renault 3.5 for the first time in 2013. However, because he was more focused on GP3 at the time he missed several races in his first season. In Monaco he was 6th was after a difficult start to his GP3 season. He had a double retirement in Spa. He missed the Moscow and Austria races but returned at Hungary to take 7th place in Race 1 but 22nd in race 2 after a few problems. In France, at the Circuit de Paul Ricard he had another double retirement. In the last race weekend of the year in Catulunya, he retired in race 1 but managed to score 6th place. He finished the season in 19th place with 22 points. , In 2014, he switched teams to DAMS. In the season opener at Monza he finished 18th in the first race but won the second. He left Monza with 25 points, beating his previous seasons score by 3 points. Another win at Aragon meant he doubled his score and in race 2, he finished in 4th. Another 4th place followed at the one race in Monaco. The weekend at Spa followed with another 2 wins. Moscow followed and he did not perform well. 14th and 6th meant that he only took 8 points from a possible 50. At the Nurburgring Gp Circuit, he won race 1 but in race 2, he retired. In Hungary, he was no match for Roberto Merhi who lead by half a minute from the rest of the field in the wet. Another 6th place followed in race 2. In France, he won and scored a total of 50 points to extend his championship lead over Merhi. , Sainz was announced to test with both Red Bull and Toro Rosso teams during the Young Drivers' test in Silverstone.  He will partner Max Verstappen at Toro Rosso , in 2015 , following Daniil Kvyat 's promotion to Red Bull .  Sainz selected 55 as his race number. He qualified inside the top ten for his début, at the Australian Grand Prix , and finished the race in ninth position.  , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , * Sainz was a guest driver, ineligible for points. † Driver did not finish the race, but was classified as he completed over 90% of the race distance. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , † Did not finish, but was classified as he had completed more than 90% of the race distance. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicates fastest lap) , * Season in progress.  Marcus Ericsson (born 2 September 1990) is a Swedish race car driver. After a successful début in car racing in 2007 which saw him take the British Formula BMW title with Fortec Motorsport , he moved up into the British team's British Formula Three squad. After finishing as one of the top rookies in the category, Ericsson turned his attentions to the All-Japan Formula Three Championship where he won the championship in his debut year . In 2010, he moved up to the GP2 Series where he secured one victory during his maiden campaign for Super Nova Racing . Between 2011 and 2012 , Ericsson drove for iSport . Ericsson completed the 2013 GP2 season with DAMS, and debuted in Formula One in 2014 with Caterham F1 . , , , Born in Kumla , Örebro County , Ericsson's first taste of motorsport came when he was nine years old racing in karts. "I got a call from Fredrik Ekblom , whom I ran in British Formula 3000 and Indy Lights . He now runs a kart circuit and he told me about a nine-year old kid who'd walked in off the street and nearly broke the lap record" recalled Richard Dutton , head of Fortec Motorsport .  Ekblom managed to convince Ericsson's father, Tomas, to buy his son a kart and the young Swede stayed in karting for the next four years, "I'd never really thought about racing as a career. My family didn't have the money for me to race formula cars so we never thought about it" Ericsson recalled.  , It was in 2006 that Ericsson's career got notable backing in the form of former Champ Car driver and 1999 Indianapolis 500 winner Kenny Bräck . "I spotted Marcus at a race in Gothenburg " Bräck says, "He didn't win the race because his engine blew up with two laps to go but he was clearly the best out there. He didn't get caught in any battles when passing – he'd just wait for the right opportunity, then he pounced and he was away. He has such patience but when he does go for it, it measures so perfectly. He reminded me of watching Alain Prost " Bräck added.  , Bräck had managed to convince Richard Dutton, who ran the Swede in British F3 in 1989, to race Ericsson for his Fortec Motorsport team's 2007 Formula BMW UK title challenge. Ericsson was realistic of his chances during the season, "I was thinking that I should be around top eight to start with, trying for podiums and maybe wins by the end of the year".  However, Ericsson's first win came earlier than expected at the first meeting of the series at Brands Hatch where he took third place in the first race and won from pole position in the second race. Following his win, Ericsson was hailed as "the best young talent" Bräck had ever seen.  The Swede was in the title race for the whole season, challenging Czech Josef Král and Brit Henry Arundel . In the end, the sixteen–year–old won the title by 40 points from Kral, becoming the final Champion of the British Formula BMW series prior to the series merge with the German series to make a European FBMW championship. , Following his win of the Formula BMW title, Ericsson began aiming for a seat in Formula Three. Tests soon followed with British Formula Three team Räikkönen Robertson Racing as part of his prize for winning the title that year. Soon afterwards the Swede had a test with frontrunning Formula Three Euroseries team ASM Formule 3, now ART Grand Prix . Despite an offer to join the French team, Ericsson opted to stay in England and join Fortec's British Formula Three team. The Swede showed his pace to the F3 paddock with two pole positions and a handful of podium finishes, but no victories, which gave him fifth overall in the championship. , During the winter of 2008, Ericsson signed a contract with the Japanese F3 team TOM'S to compete full-time in the championship for the upcoming season. The Swede reasoned that he could was more likely to gain the experience needed to win the Macau Grand Prix in comparison to competing further in the British championship.  Ericsson won the Japanese F3 championship, and also won races when making guest appearances back in British F3. He consequently participated in the Macau Grand Prix where he qualified in pole position and finished the main race in fourth position. , Ericsson moved into the GP2 Asia Series for the 2009–10 GP2 Asia Series season , driving originally for the ART Grand Prix team.  However, it was later confirmed that Ericsson would drive for Super Nova Racing in the 2010 GP2 Series season .  He had been expected to complete the rest of the Asian series with the team, but Jake Rosenzweig was signed to replace Ericsson for the final two rounds.  Ericsson returned to Super Nova for the 2010 season , partnering Josef Král and later Luca Filippi . He took his first series victory at Valencia , but only scoring points on two further occasions restricted him to seventeenth place in the drivers' championship. , Ericsson switched to the iSport International team for 2011, alongside Sam Bird . He finished sixth in the Asia series championship, and tenth in the main series championship. He remained with iSport for 2012 , alongside Jolyon Palmer . After a relatively disappointing start to the year, his fortunes improved with a victory at Spa , kickstarting a run of six consecutive points finishes to the end of the season, including two podium finishes. This late flourish lifted him to eighth in the championship. , In 2013, he got the chance to drive for the reigning champions DAMS . Despite showing great pace in qualifying, taking pole position in Spain and Great Britain, he was very unlucky in the races. A turning point came in Germany, where he won the sprint race, and he continued with podium positions in Hungary, Belgium, Singapore and Abu Dhabi to finish sixth in the championship. , Ericsson drove for Brawn GP at the young driver test at Circuito de Jerez over three days, on 1–3 December 2009. He tested alongside IndyCar Series driver Mike Conway .  Conway had the edge by three tenths of a second, however team principal Ross Brawn commended Ericsson for his performance, saying that he had "performed very well showing exceptional maturity in his approach and feedback".  , It was announced on 21 November 2013 that Ericsson was a candidate to drive for the Caterham F1 Team in 2014 with Kamui Kobayashi as teammates.  On 21 January 2014, the team announced that Ericsson and Kobayashi would be their race driver line up for the forthcoming season, with Robin Frijns as reserve.  , Ericsson qualified 20th in his debut race – the 2014 Australian Grand Prix and made a very good beginning to the race, running 11th before he fell back with oil pressure problems. In Malaysia , he qualified last, but improved in the race, finishing 14th in front of main rival Max Chilton . In Spain , he outqualified Kobayashi for the first time of his career, but he was behind both Marussia cars. He finished the race in 20th position, the last classified finisher. In the next race, the Monaco Grand Prix , he was involved in a collision with Williams driver Felipe Massa during qualifying, which resulted in Massa not advancing to the second part of the qualifying session. Ericsson was penalised with two penalty points and had to start from the pit lane. He drove a good race and took advantage of bad luck for other drivers to finish in 11th place, just missing out on his and Caterham's first points. , After this, Ericsson had some tough races in the slow Caterham, and it took until the Belgian Grand Prix where he could match the Marussias again, losing 16th place to Chilton on the very last lap. In Singapore , he did a good job saving his tyres and was able to keep both Marussias behind him to finish in 15th place and in Japan , he out-qualified both Marussias and Kobayashi for 19th position. He started 17th, but spun behind the safety car in heavy rain, and had to fight back from last place. He finished 17th after some really fast laps, in front of both Marussias and Kobayashi, but his great performance was overshadowed by the crash of Bianchi. At the inaugural Russian Grand Prix , he qualified in a career-best 17th position and this time, he was only 0.15 seconds from making it into Q2. During the race, he started 16th but fell back as expected, finishing 19th overall but in front of his main rivals – the other Caterham and the sole Marussia of Chilton, who eventually retired from the race. , Due to Caterham F1 falling into administration on 21 October 2014, neither team driver was able to compete at the United States Grand Prix . Despite this, Ericsson flew to Texas to commentate the race for Swedish television and, as it transpired, to secure a new drive for 2015. Ericsson terminated his contract with Caterham on 12 November.  He eventually finished the season in 19th position, highest of the Caterham drivers that took part in 2014 . , At the 2014 United States Grand Prix , Sauber announced that it had signed Ericsson for 2015 ,  due in part to his substantial financial backing, but also for his strong last races of the 2014 season and the fact that he stayed cool despite 2014 being a frustrating season for him.  In his first race with the team in Australia , Ericsson finished in eighth position, recording the first points-scoring finish by a Swedish driver since Stefan Johansson finished third at the 1989 Portuguese Grand Prix .   , Malaysia was the first time that Ericsson made it into Q3, qualifying 10th but being promoted to 9th spot on the grid. He made a good start, but spun only on the fourth lap after an unsuccessful overtaking attempt on Force India's Nico Hülkenberg which resulted in a DNF. In China Marcus once again made it into Q3 in qualifying, once again being 10th at the grid. He finished the race in the same position, scoring one point after that Max Verstappen's engine blew up with only a few laps remaining. In Bahrain he qualified outside the top 10, but made a good start and held 8th position when a pit stop failure caused him to fall down the field, sabotaging his chances to bring some new points in the bag. He eventuelly finished the race in 14th position, one place below where he had started. , The first European leg of the season started poorly, finishing 14th in Spain and 13th in Monaco. , * Season in progress. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , * Season in progress.  Jenson Alexander Lyons Button , MBE (born 19 January 1980) is a British Formula One driver from England currently signed to McLaren . He was the 2009 Formula One World Champion , driving for Brawn GP . , Button began karting at the age of eight and achieved early success, before progressing to car racing in the British Formula Ford Championship and the British Formula Three Championship . He first drove in Formula One with Williams F1 for the 2000 season . The following year he switched to Benetton , which in 2002 became Renault , and then for the 2003 season he moved to BAR . In 2004 he finished 3rd in the World Drivers' Championship, with only the two Ferraris ahead of him. BAR were subsequently renamed Honda for the 2006 season , during which Button won his first Grand Prix in Hungary , after 113 races.  , Following the withdrawal of Honda from the sport in December 2008, he was left without a drive for the 2009 season , until Ross Brawn led a management buyout of the team in February 2009, and Button suddenly found himself in a highly competitive, Mercedes -engined car. He went on to win a record-equalling six of the first seven races of the 2009 season, securing the World Drivers' Championship at the Brazilian Grand Prix , having led on points all season; his success also helped Brawn GP to secure the World Constructors' Championship . , For 2010 , he moved to McLaren , partnering fellow British racer and former World Champion Lewis Hamilton . After finishing fifth for the team in 2010, Button finished the 2011 season as runner-up . In 2012 he took his first pole for McLaren at the 2012 Belgian Grand Prix . He spent a fifth season with the McLaren team in 2014, his 15th in Formula One. From the 273 races that Button has started he has won 15, with a total of 50 podium finishes. Button was named one of the "Men of the Year" in both 2009 and 2011 by Top Gear . , , , Button was born on 19 January 1980 in Frome , Somerset and brought up in nearby Vobster .  He was named after his father's friend Erling Jensen, changing the "e" to an "o" to differentiate it from Jensen Motors .  He was educated at Vallis First School, Selwood Middle School and Frome Community College .  He is the fourth child of Simone Lyons and former Rallycross driver John Button , who was well known in the UK during the 1970s for his so-called Colorado Beetle Volkswagen . After his parents divorced when he was seven, he and his three elder sisters were brought up by their mother in Frome.  He failed his first driving test for getting too close to a parked vehicle.  , Button enjoyed racing from an early age, racing his BMX bike with friends after school,  he began karting at the age of eight, after his father bought him his first kart, and made an extraordinarily successful start. In 1989, aged nine, he came first in the British Super Prix.  He won all 34 races of the 1991 British Cadet Kart Championship, along with the title.  Further successes followed, including three triumphs in the British Open Kart Championship. In 1997, he won the Ayrton Senna Memorial Cup , and also became the youngest driver ever to win the European Super A Championship.  , Aged 18, Button moved into car racing, winning the British Formula Ford Championship with Haywood Racing; he also triumphed in the Formula Ford Festival at Brands Hatch .  At the end of 1998, he won the annual McLaren Autosport BRDC Young Driver Award . His prize included a test in a McLaren Formula One car, which he received at the end of the following year.  Button entered the British Formula Three Championship in 1999 , with the Promatecme team. He won three times —at Thruxton , Pembrey and Silverstone —and finished the season as the top rookie driver, and third overall.  He finished fifth and second respectively in the Marlboro Masters and Macau Grand Prix , losing out by 0.035 seconds to winner Darren Manning in the latter.  , At the end of 1999, Button had his McLaren test prize at Silverstone, and also tested for the Prost team. A vacant race seat became available at the Williams team, following the departure of Alex Zanardi , and team boss Frank Williams arranged a 'shoot-out' test between Button and Formula 3000 racer Bruno Junqueira , with Button securing the drive.  This made him Britain's youngest ever Formula One driver.  Button was heavily hyped before his first race: former driver Gerhard Berger described him as a "phenomenon"; the head of his karting team, Paul Lemmens, compared him to Ayrton Senna ; and Williams' technical director Patrick Head said he was "remarkably mature and definitely a star of the future".  However some had misgivings about his lack of experience and ability to cope with the pressures of Formula One.  , Making his début in Australia , Button crashed during practice and qualified second-last on the grid. However, he performed strongly in the race and was set to score a point before his engine failed 11 laps from the finish.   A sixth-place finish at the next race in Brazil made him, at the time, the youngest driver ever to score a point .  In his first six races, he outqualified his teammate Ralf Schumacher twice, and was consistently close in pace; journalist David Tremayne described Button's start as "the stuff of any team owner's wildest dreams".  However, Williams had intended to use Button only until they could exercise their option to buy the highly rated Juan Pablo Montoya out of his contract at Ganassi Racing .  A dip in Button's form, combined with Montoya's victory in that year's Indianapolis 500 , led to Montoya being announced as his replacement midway through the season. Williams chose not to sell Button's contract, keeping the right to recall him in 2003. He went to Benetton on a two-year loan.  , Button's best qualification of the season was third place in the Belgian Grand Prix at Spa-Francorchamps ; and his best result was fourth in the German Grand Prix .  Despite the worries about his inexperience, he made few mistakes during the season, the most notable coming in the Italian Grand Prix at Monza . Under safety car conditions Button swerved to avoid the pack which had bunched up, and subsequently crashed into the barrier; he blamed Michael Schumacher who had been leading at the time (and so controlling the pace), and Schumacher apologised for it after the race.  Button finished his impressive debut season in eighth place with 12 points (Ralf Schumacher finished fifth with 24).    , For 2001 , Button partnered experienced driver Giancarlo Fisichella at Benetton, which had recently been purchased by Renault . He endured a dismal season: the Benetton car was very uncompetitive and he was consistently outperformed by his teammate.  He finished 17th in the Drivers' Championship with only 2 points, with his best result being fifth place at the German Grand Prix .  His poor form led to speculation he would be replaced before the end of the year;  team principal Flavio Briatore said, "Either he shows he's super-good or he leaves the top echelon of drivers",  and reportedly offered him the chance to walk.  Button believed that his inexperience showed as he struggled to help his team set up a competitive car.  His lack of success combined with an extravagant lifestyle led some to dub him a " playboy ".   , In 2002 , Benetton was rebranded as Renault F1 , and Jarno Trulli joined the team to partner Button. Over the winter break, Button spent a lot of time working with his engineering team and felt there was an improved understanding between them; he described himself as "very confident" for the season.  He started well: in the second race of the season in Malaysia , he was on track for his first podium before a suspension problem in the final laps dropped him to fourth place.  Button's performances were greatly improved from the previous season's; although often outqualified by Trulli, he showed the faster race pace to outscore his more experienced teammate.  Despite Button's performances, and his desire to stay with Renault,  it was announced at the French Grand Prix that he would make way in 2003 for test driver Fernando Alonso .  Briatore faced criticism for his decision, but stated "time will tell if I am wrong";  he would also accuse Button of being a "lazy playboy".  In July, Button signed a two-year contract with a two-year option for British American Racing , partnering 1997 world champion Jacques Villeneuve .  An important factor in his decision was the chance to work with David Richards , the BAR team principal.  He finished the season seventh with 14 points, one place and 5 points ahead of Trulli.  , Button faced early hostility from new teammate Villeneuve , who suggested that Button had been hired for his marketing appeal more than his ability, and compared him to a "member of a boy band". Button responded by denying he had anything to prove to Villeneuve; "I am not here to earn Jacques' respect, I am here to win and move the team forward".  Their relationship did not improve after the first Grand Prix in Australia: Villeneuve was due to pit, but stayed out an extra lap and pitted when Button was due in, leaving Button waiting in the pit lane while Villeneuve's car was serviced. Villeneuve blamed it on "radio problems", but both Button and team principal David Richards hinted that they did not believe him.  Button performed well in the first six races, scoring eight points (the points system had changed that year to award points to the top eight finishers), including fourth place at the Austrian Grand Prix ; Villeneuve had scored only three.  Button crashed heavily at 185 mph (298 km/h) during Saturday practice in Monaco , briefly knocking him unconscious, and he was detained in hospital overnight.  Despite the accident Button still wanted to race, but was withdrawn by his team on medical advice.  He also missed a one-day test in Monza, but was cleared to race in the following Grand Prix in Montreal .  Button continued to outperform his teammate (although Villeneuve suffered a large number of mechanical problems), and this helped rebuild his previously faltering reputation.  Just before the final race in Japan , Villeneuve lost his seat at BAR, so Button was partnered with Takuma Sato ;  he took his second fourth place for the season, and finished ninth in the Drivers' Championship with 17 points.  , The 2004 season was the first in which Button was the more experienced driver in his team. He was ambitious for the season, saying: "This year I could be a front-runner. We want to run alongside the top teams. I want to be consistently in the points and on the podium."  He took his first ever podium in the second race of the season—third-place at the Malaysian Grand Prix —saying afterwards, "There are no words to describe the feeling of your first podium".  He followed it up two weeks later with another third-place in Bahrain . In the next race at Imola , he took his first pole position and finished second behind Michael Schumacher .  His results for the season were impressive: he took 10 podiums in 18 races, and failed to score points in only three.  Button came third in the Drivers' Championship, behind the two utterly dominant Ferrari drivers, and helped BAR to take second in the Constructors' Championship. , In August, Button became embroiled in a contract dispute. On 5 August, Button chose to leave BAR and signed a two-year contract to return to Williams .  This was surprising, as Button was enjoying his best season to date, while Williams had been struggling.  BAR, however, insisted they had the right to exercise their option to keep Button. Button's management argued that the BAR option was not valid because it contained a clause allowing him to leave if BAR risked losing their Honda engines. They felt the new contract signed in the summer for Honda to supply engines to BAR was not definitive, and thus Button was free to move.   The dispute went to Formula One's Contract Recognition Board, who ruled in favour of BAR on 20 October, forcing Button to stay with the team.  Two of the men at the centre of the dispute were soon removed from their positions: team principal David Richards was replaced by Nick Fry after Honda bought 45 percent of the BAR business;  and Button separated from his manager John Byfield, saying he had been badly advised.  , Despite the feud, Button insisted he had his team's backing,  and was optimistic for the 2005 season .  He endured a difficult start: BAR were off the pace in the first race in Australia ;  and in the following race in Malaysia , both cars retired with engine failure after only three laps.  Two weeks later in the Bahrain Grand Prix , Button had fought his way to fourth place from eleventh on the grid, before a clutch problem forced him into another retirement.  The poor start only got worse at the San Marino Grand Prix . Button finished third, but after the race scrutineers found his car had a second fuel tank kept inside the main tank; once both were drained, his car was 5.4 kg underweight. Although the race stewards took no action, the FIA appealed against the decision and the case was examined by the FIA International Court of Appeal.  It could not be proved that BAR were deliberately cheating; however, for contravention of the rules, both drivers were stripped of their points from San Marino and banned from the next two races.   , Returning at the European Grand Prix , BAR were still struggling and Button finished tenth.  He surprised everyone by taking the second pole position of his career in Montreal ,  but crashed out on lap 47 of the race while running third.  The forced withdrawal of all teams using Michelin tyres, including BAR, at the controversial United States Grand Prix , meant Button and Sato were still yet to score points after nine races of a 19-race season.  However, this marked a turning point as Button scored in all of the remaining races. He was on the podium twice in the season—third-place finishes in Germany and Belgium .  He finished the season in ninth place  with BAR sixth in the Constructors' Championship.  , For the second year in a row, Button had contract disputes involving BAR and Williams. Button had signed a pre-contract to drive for Williams in 2006, but he now believed his prospects would be better at BAR, and that his Williams contract was not binding.  Frank Williams insisted the contract was fully binding, and that there would be "absolutely no turning back"; his team required Button to fulfil some contractual obligations with sponsors.  After several weeks of talks, Williams agreed to release Button in exchange for an estimated £18 million in compensation.  BAR brought in experienced driver Rubens Barrichello from Ferrari to partner Button, replacing Takuma Sato.  In October, Honda bought the remaining 55 percent of BAR from British American Tobacco , renaming the team Honda Racing F1 ; Button said at the time, "Honda buying the team is amazing news and really shows their commitment to winning the world championship".  , The new team performed well in testing prior to the 2006 season , helped by the extra resources now available from Honda, and Button was confident in the car.  , The early part of the 2006 season proved difficult; at the first round , he scored five points with 4th place, and finished on the podium in Malaysia . In Australia , he qualified on pole, but was overtaken on the run to the first corner by Fernando Alonso and Kimi Räikkönen after a safety car period; he was running 5th in the race, before his engine blew at the last corner on the last lap. He stopped short of the finish line to avoid an engine penalty. At his home race at Silverstone , he qualified 19th after he lost time being weighed, and his team failed to get him on track quickly enough. He spun off on lap eight due to an engine oil leak. , At the Canadian Grand Prix , Button out-qualified Barrichello for the first time since Imola, but finished outside the points in ninth. He retired at the United States Grand Prix , in a first lap collision involving several drivers and again at the French Grand Prix due to an engine failure. At the German Grand Prix , Button was again pulled into the weighbridge, but went on to qualify fourth. After running third for a while in the race, Button eventually finished fourth. , Button took the first win of his career in 2006 at a chaotic Hungarian Grand Prix  – the 113th Grand Prix start of his career.  He started 14th after a 10-place grid penalty for an engine change. The race was badly affected by heavy rain, and Button passed a number of drivers in the early laps – including championship contender Michael Schumacher – and was up to fourth by lap 10. Following the retirement of leading drivers Kimi Räikkönen and Fernando Alonso, he went on to win the race by just over half a minute from Pedro de la Rosa and Nick Heidfeld . Alonso was behind Button on the racetrack when he retired, although Button still had one pitstop to make.  Button's win bettered Nigel Mansell 's 1989 win from 12th on the grid at the Hungaroring. Button was the first British driver to win since David Coulthard in March 2003, and the first English driver to win since Johnny Herbert won the 1999 European Grand Prix . He was the second driver after Räikkönen to win a race despite a grid penalty for changing an engine. At the British Academy Television Awards 2007 , Button's first win earned ITV1 a BAFTA under the category of 'Best Sport'.  , Button finished fourth or fifth at each of the next five races and finished the season with a podium finish at the final round in Brazil. Over the last six races of the season, Button scored more points (35) than any other driver.  , In 2007, Button again competed with Honda alongside Barrichello. He was unable to take part in winter testing, prior to the season because of two hairline fractures to his ribs, sustained in a karting incident in late 2006.  Former British world champion Damon Hill aired doubts over Button's hopes to be a championship contender at Honda over the coming season, saying, "if he is serious... he has to get himself in a car that is a championship contender."  Alan Henry writing in The Guardian 2007 F1 season guide, predicted: "Button will win a couple more races but is not a title contender."  He was proved to be wrong, as the Honda RA107 proved to be aerodynamically poor. , At the first race of the season in Australia , Button only managed to qualify 14th after handling problems. The race was no better, as he endured considerable understeer throughout, was given a drive-through penalty for speeding in the pit lane and finished 15th. The next two races in Malaysia and Bahrain were just as unsuccessful, Button finishing 12th behind team-mate Barrichello in Malaysia, and not even completing a lap in Bahrain, after colliding with Red Bull Racing driver David Coulthard at Turn 4. At the French Grand Prix , Button finished eighth, earning his and Honda's first point of 2007. Following the British Grand Prix , it was announced that Button would remain with Honda for 2008 .  , As Button's place as the pre-eminent British driver in Formula One was effectively taken by Lewis Hamilton , former champion Nigel Mansell criticised Button, saying: "Jenson should have won more races, he has under-performed and that is down to him." Honda team boss Nick Fry defended his driver, saying: "I would refute everything Nigel has said, and particularly I think his comments about Jenson's reputation for partying are about five years out of date...his increasing maturity and the way he changed his lifestyle is extremely noticeable."  Button made no secret of his frustration regarding his current situation; he described his 2007 season as "a total disaster".  Button did, however, record several impressive outings towards the end of the season, especially when rain was prominent. , Button stayed with Honda for 2008 , and continued to be partnered by Barrichello. The Honda RA108 proved to be uncompetitive, and he scored his only points at the Spanish Grand Prix with 6th place, but did not finish in the wet in front of his home crowd at Silverstone , where Barrichello finished third. On 5 December 2008, Honda announced that they were quitting Formula One, due to the global economic crisis , leaving Button's chances of a drive in 2009 dependent on the team finding a buyer.  , On 5 March 2009, it was announced that the former Honda team would race in 2009 as Brawn GP , following a late buy-out by Ross Brawn , the previous team principal of Honda Racing. Button and Rubens Barrichello were confirmed as the team's drivers for 2009 , with Button reported to have taken a 50% pay cut as part of the deal.  , In the first half of the year the Brawn team benefited from a controversial diffuser design,  which gave the teams using it an advantage over teams that did not. Once the major teams introduced their own reconfigured diffusers Button's dominance ended, with Button winning 6 of the first 7 races, but averaging only 6th in the following ten races.    , Brawn GP impressed from the first grand prix: Button took pole position in Australia , his first for the team and third ever, with Barrichello qualifying in second.  Button then led from start to finish to win the race ahead of his team-mate—the first time a team had scored a 1–2 finish on their debut since 1954 —with Button describing it as "a fairytale ending for the first race".  One week later he repeated the accomplishment, taking pole position and winning a rain-curtailed Malaysian Grand Prix ; due to the rain the race was red flagged and only half points were awarded.  At the Chinese Grand Prix , Button finished third behind Red Bull's Sebastian Vettel and Mark Webber ,  but returned to winning ways the following week in Bahrain despite only qualifying fourth.  , The fifth race of the season was at the Circuit de Catalunya in Barcelona. The return to Europe allowed most of the teams to update their cars, including modifications to Button's car, the Brawn BGP 001 , which had not yet been altered since the season began.  Button took pole position with the final lap of the qualifying session, describing the updates as "good step forward".  Both Button and Barrichello initially planned to stop three times during the race; however, after he fell behind Barrichello at the first corner, Button was switched to a two-stop strategy, and this meant he ended up finishing comfortably ahead. An unhappy Barrichello felt immediately after the race that the team might have sacrificed him to help Button, saying: "If I get the slightest sniff that they are favouring Jenson I'll hang up my helmet tomorrow".  , At the Monaco Grand Prix , Button scored his fourth pole position of the season with his final lap of qualifying, commenting afterwards, "It was my best lap of the weekend and definitely one of the best laps I've ever done."  Button then managed his tyres much better than his teammate in the early stages of the race, building a lead which he did not relinquish, and making it a hat-trick of victories.  David Tremayne described it as "as good a performance as anything we had seen there from the likes of Ayrton Senna or Michael Schumacher", adding that it "swept away final doubts about his ability after years of floundering in mediocre machinery".  In Turkey , Button qualified second behind Vettel but a first-lap error from the German allowed him to take the lead and he held off the competition to take his fourth consecutive win. This meant he had won six out of season's first seven races; an achievement matched only by Alberto Ascari , Juan Manuel Fangio , Jim Clark and Michael Schumacher, who all went on to win the world title.  , The British Grand Prix in June marked the end of Button's superiority over the field, and was the first in a string of poor results for him. He achieved only sixth place,  followed by a fifth place in Germany , as the Red Bull cars dominated both races.  Brawn GP were hopeful of a strong result in the Hungarian Grand Prix , as the car had been significantly updated and was usually at its best in hot conditions.  However, Button struggled with tyre temperatures and achieved a season-worst seventh place; during the race, he asked frustratedly over team radio, "How can this car be so bad at the moment?"  , His bad run continued in Valencia ; he was out-qualified by his teammate, and then, held up behind Webber for a lot of the race, could finish only in seventh place. Barrichello pushed on to win the race, and close the gap on Button to 18 points.  Martin Brundle felt that Button was struggling with the pressure of leading the world championship, writing: "He has tightened up in the car and his natural instincts behind the wheel are being restricted."  The following race at Spa-Francorchamps , Button had his first retirement of the season after a collision with Romain Grosjean during the first lap.  This meant Button had scored only 11 points from his previous five races, and with five races left his lead was down to 16 points over Barrichello, and 19 and 20.5 over Vettel and Webber respectively.  , Button recovered at Monza : he qualified sixth, before finishing second behind his teammate.  The following race in Singapore , Button qualified poorly in 12th but performed much better on race day to take fifth place; Barrichello could manage only sixth. With three races and 30 points remaining, this put Button 15 points ahead of his teammate and 25 ahead of Vettel, with Webber now unable to win.  A week later at the Japanese Grand Prix , the Brawn GP cars struggled again, Barrichello and Button finishing seventh and eighth respectively.  , At the Brazilian Grand Prix , Button was hampered in qualifying by a poor choice of tyres in the wet weather and could achieve only fourteenth position. His championship campaign was boosted by Vettel qualifying sixteenth, but team-mate and closest rival Barrichello qualified on pole. In the race, Button was aided by a first-lap incident, and was up to seventh by lap seven. He ran as high as second place by halfway, but ultimately finished fifth, taking enough points to secure the 2009 championship with one round to spare.  At the final race of the season, in Abu Dhabi , Button qualified behind Barrichello again, but was able to achieve a podium by coming third.  , With 169 starts, Button made the second-highest number of race starts before becoming World Champion. Only Nigel Mansell (with 176 starts, at the 1992 Hungarian Grand Prix ) had competed in more races than Button before winning the World Championship.  Button wrote a book about his 2009 season, entitled "My Championship Year",  which was published by Weidenfeld & Nicolson on 19 November 2009. , On 30 November 2009, Button was announced as one of the ten men and women shortlisted for the 2009 BBC Sports Personality of the Year Award .   At the awards ceremony on 13 December 2009, Button was awarded second place.  On 6 December, Button won the BBC West Country's Sports Personality of the Year at the University of Bath . He won the main award against racehorse trainer Paul Nicholls , cricketer Marcus Trescothick and golfer Chris Wood . He also won the Laureus World Breakthrough of the Year award.  , Button was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2010 New Year Honours for his services to motorsport.   Button's home town, Frome , has named a street, Jenson Avenue, after him,  and has awarded him the Freedom of the town .  The town also intends to name a new bridge over the River Frome 'The Jenson Button Bridge'.  , Following the buy-out of Brawn by Mercedes , Button announced on 18 November 2009 that he would be leaving the team to move to McLaren for the 2010 season.  He signed a three-year deal for a reported £6 million per season to drive alongside former world champion Lewis Hamilton .  Button said he moved because he wanted the motivation and challenge from competing head-to-head with Hamilton, and that Brawn GP had offered him more money.  A number of people, including former Formula One drivers John Watson , Jackie Stewart and Eddie Irvine , believed the move was a mistake, and that Button would struggle to compete with Hamilton at McLaren.   , After a seventh-place finish in the opening round in Bahrain , Button won the second race in Australia from fourth on the grid. Button was the first to come in for slick tyres on a damp but drying track, which lifted him to second place after the other drivers had pitted. He inherited the lead when Vettel retired with brake problems and maintained his lead to the end without changing his tyres again.  His victory made him the thirteenth driver in Formula One history to have won Grands Prix for at least three different constructors.  Following an eighth-place finish in Malaysia , after starting seventeenth, Button went on to win his second race of the season from fifth on the grid in China , by staying on slick tyres while most of the other drivers pitted for intermediates, he was promoted to second place. However, the rain did not come, and the other drivers had to pit again for dry tyres. Subsequently, he went on to lead the Drivers' Championship, with McLaren leading the Constructors' Championship.  , In Spain he was leapfrogged by Michael Schumacher and finished a frustrated fifth, before retiring in Monaco due to an overheating engine on lap three. As a result, Button lost his lead in the Championship, dropping to fourth behind both Red Bull drivers and Alonso. Button then finished second in Turkey after Red Bull teammates Mark Webber and Sebastian Vettel, who were leading the race, collided with each other. His own teammate Hamilton took the win, after the two of them briefly touched after a few corners of wheel-to-wheel racing. Hamilton had been told by the McLaren team to slow down and that Button would not pass him if he did so. Button passed the surprised Hamilton anyway, though Hamilton quickly took the lead back.  The second place promoted Button to second overall in the Championship, just behind Webber. In Canada he followed up this result and remained second in the Championship, 3 points behind his teammate Hamilton. At the European Grand Prix in Valencia, Button finished 3rd and maintained 2nd place in the title race with another podium. Button missed out on a podium at the British Grand Prix , finishing fourth after problems with the balance of his car in qualifying had left him fourteenth. , After three further-points scoring finishes, Button retired at the Belgian Grand Prix after being hit by Vettel, which punctured the radiator of his car. Second at Monza was followed by a fourth place in both Singapore and Japan . During the Brazilian Grand Prix weekend, Button and his entourage were threatened by a number of gunmen on his way back from qualifying at Interlagos , although nobody was harmed during the incident.  Button was mathematically eliminated from retaining his championship title with a fifth place in the race. At the season finale in Abu Dhabi , Button qualified fourth. He moved ahead of Alonso at the start, and moved up to third. Hamilton and Vettel pitted, leaving Button in the lead. After doing 39 laps on the option tyre, Button pitted and slotted back into third, where he would finish and secure fifth in the championship. , 2011 began slowly for Button and McLaren, with Vettel dominating the early races. Button came second in Malaysia , and third in Spain and Monaco , losing the chance for a race win in the latter race after a red flag in the closing laps allowed Vettel and Alonso to change tyres. Two weeks later in Canada , Button took what he called the "best win of (his) career", overtaking Vettel on the final lap after Vettel made a mistake under pressure. Button made five pit-stops, had his teammate crash into him, served a drive-through penalty for speeding under the safety car – dropping him to last place – as well as sustaining a puncture from a collision with Alonso, and made 27 on-track passes to win the longest Formula One race in history.  , Button suffered his first retirement of the season at the British Grand Prix , caused by an error at his final pit stop. The wheel gun failed to refit the wheel nut and Button was released by the pit crew with an unsecured wheel. At the German Grand Prix , he retired in consecutive races for the first time since 2008, due to hydraulic issues. Button won his 200th Formula One race at the Hungarian Grand Prix , where he had won his first Grand Prix in 2006.  Button finished third in Belgium , having qualified in 13th after a miscommunication with his team,  after overtaking Alonso with two laps to go. He finished second at both Monza . In Singapore , Button chased Vettel who was in the lead with a few laps to go, closing at over a second a lap, but at the final moment, traffic denied him the chance to take first. After Singapore he moved into second place in the Drivers' Championship, and he became the only driver that could deny Vettel a second consecutive title. , Prior to the Japanese Grand Prix , Button signed a multi-year contract extension with McLaren.  The new deal will earn Button £85 million.  He took victory in the race ahead of Alonso and Vettel, the latter becoming champion. At the Indian Grand Prix McLaren team principal Martin Whitmarsh stated that the length of Button's new contract was 3 years. Button qualified fourth for this race and elevated himself to second position on the first lap, overtaking Alonso at the turn one and Webber on the long back straight. He eventually finished second behind Vettel, whose race pace he had been unable to match. In Abu Dhabi , Button qualified third and also finished in third after teammate Hamilton won the race and pole-sitter Vettel suffered a puncture on lap 1 and retired with suspension damage. Button suffered a recurring KERS problem for a large part of the race, but still had a good gap between himself and fourth placed man Webber, as well as an almost equal gap to second placed Alonso in front. These results ensured that Button was the first teammate to outscore Lewis Hamilton in a season.  At the final race of the season – the Brazilian Grand Prix , Button outqualified Hamilton to start third on the grid and he also finished third – in both occasions behind the two Red Bull cars – by overtaking Alonso on lap 62. The result secured second place in the Championship for Button, some 122 points behind Vettel. In 2011, Button won three Grands Prix, set three fastest laps and finished on the podium twelve times. , Button remained at McLaren for the 2012 season, again partnering Hamilton.  Button qualified second to Hamilton, before going on to win the first race of the season in Australia .  Button went on to qualify second to Hamilton at the following race in Malaysia ,  however he finished 14th after a collision with the HRT of Narain Karthikeyan and a lack of grip. This was Button's first non-points finish since the 2010 Korean Grand Prix and it ended a points streak which started at the 2011 Hungarian Grand Prix . Button finished second in China two weeks later. , In the 2012 Bahrain Grand Prix Button qualified fourth behind his team mate Lewis Hamilton in second. During the race Button found frustration with the levels of grip and retired on lap 55 due to an exhaust failure. At the 2012 Spanish Grand Prix Button qualified 11th, the first time he had qualified outside the top ten all season. After failing to finish above 8th in the next four races, Button finished third in Germany , although he was later promoted to second after Sebastian Vettel was penalised in the race. He went on to pick up his first pole position for over three years at Belgium . Button won the race becoming the first driver of the season to lead every lap of a Grand Prix. Button qualified in second place behind his team-mate at the Italian Grand Prix , and remained in second place until he had to pull up and retire with a fuel pressure problems two-thirds of the way through the race. , At the Singapore Grand Prix , Button qualified in fourth place and finished the race in second place after Vettel inherited the win when Hamilton had a gearbox failure during the race. Button qualified in third place in Japan behind a Red Bull front row, but was hit with a five place penalty for a gearbox change and dropped to eighth. Button made the best of various first corner incidents and weaved his car into third place. He eventually finished fourth after Felipe Massa leap-frogged him in the pit stops and he was unable to overtake Kamui Kobayashi before the end of the race. Button qualified down in eleventh place for the Korean Grand Prix , but was forced to retire from the race after the first lap when Kobayashi collided with him and also Nico Rosberg. During the Indian Grand Prix , Button finished fifth behind team-mate Hamilton, after starting the race fourth and being overtaking by Fernando Alonso in the opening laps. He qualified sixth for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , finishing fourth after being overtaken in the final laps by Sebastian Vettel. He picked up his third win of the season at the season-ending Brazilian Grand Prix in changeable conditions after a battle for the lead with Nico Hülkenberg and teammate Hamilton. Button dropped back from the two half way through the race but they then collided, with Hamilton retiring and Hülkenberg being forced to pit, Button was able to pick up his 15th career victory. He ended up finishing 5th in the championship, just a few points behind his teammate. , In March 2013, Button announced that he intends to stay with McLaren until he retires.  At the Australian Grand Prix , Button qualified tenth and finished ninth, despite the team admitting that they did not truly understand the way the McLaren MP4-28 behaved in race conditions.   In Malaysia , Button started the race seventh, but retired just before the end of the race.  Button was partnered with Mexican driver Sergio Pérez after Lewis Hamilton left to join Mercedes  after Pérez impressed McLaren CEO Martin Whitmarsh with the Sauber team in 2012. Throughout the season and particularly at the Monaco and Bahrain Grand Prix, there was exciting racing between the two drivers,  leading to Button making the following comment on his team radio, asking the team to "Calm him (Pérez) down!". Button was very critical of Pérez and his driving style after the race. , I've raced with many team-mates over the years and with quite an aggressive team-mate in Lewis [Hamilton], but I'm not used to driving down the straight and then my team-mate coming along and wiggling his wheels at me and banging wheels with me at 300km/h. I've had some tough fights in F1 but not quite as dirty as that. That's something you do in karting and normally you grow out of it but that's obviously not the case with Checo [Pérez]. Soon something serious will happen so he has to calm down. He's extremely quick and he did a great job today but some of it is unnecessary and an issue when you are doing those speeds. , Button's best result in 2013 was a 4th place at the last Grand Prix of the season in Brazil, ending a difficult and under-performing season for Button and the McLaren team as a whole in recent times. , After a difficult 2013 season with McLaren, it was announced in November 2013 that Danish driver, Kevin Magnussen would replace Sergio Pérez as Button's teammate for the 2014 season, after being a member of McLaren's Young Driver Programme.  , There was a rule change for the 2014 season where the drivers could pick a car number and this would be their unique and personal car number for their Formula One career. Button picked number 22 which was the car number he raced under during his World Championship winning year for Brawn GP in 2009 .   At the first race, the Australian Grand Prix , Button finished the race in 4th place. However, as 2nd placed Daniel Ricciardo was subsequently disqualified after his car was found to have exceeded the maximum allowed fuel flow rate of 100  kg/h , Button was promoted to 3rd. Ultimately, Button finished the 2014 season 8th in the Drivers' Championship with 126 points; his team mate Magnussen finished 11th with 55 points. , With Alonso moving to McLaren for the 2015 season, when they would be using Honda engines, the team had not announced in November 2014 whether they would be retaining Button or Magnussen as Alonso's team-mate, leaving both 2014 drivers wondering whether they would be driving in Formula One in 2015. Button commented that his father would have been "livid" about his uncertain future.  After the last race of the season, at which Hamilton won the Drivers' Championship for the second time and had been a team mate of Button's in the past, Hamilton said that "McLaren would be smart" to keep Button. "Developing, building a team, stabilising a team, you need strong drivers to lead the team, and he's the full package."  , On 11 December 2014 McLaren announced that Button would be staying with them for the 2015 season, partnering former World Champion Fernando Alonso .  The BBC reported that he had signed a 2-year contract which included an option for 2016.  , The new McLaren- Honda package started out to be unreliable and problematic after a January 29 launch. In the three pre-season tests Button, teammate Alonso and reserve driver Kevin Magnussen only had a single day over one hundred laps, which was completed by the Briton. Arriving in Australia Button qualified 17th and finished 11th and last in the detuned McLaren to ensure the team and new power unit supplier, Honda Racing F1 would compile decent mileage because of energy recovery issues. This continued into Malaysia where Button had to retire from the race. In China , Button collided with Lotus racer Pastor Maldonado in the latter stages of the Grand Prix. Button received a five-second time penalty dropping him one spot to 14th and two penalty points to his super licence which was previously clean for which the points will last twelve months. Button described the crash as 'just a misjudgement'.  Button had a horrible weekend in Sakhir where he had to stop on track three times, once in FP1, another time in FP2 and again in Q1 where he was unable to set a time and had to line up 20th and last on the grid. After an energy recovery issue the Briton could not even start the race. , Button is known for having a very smooth driving style; journalist Mark Hughes wrote in 2009, "Button has a fantastic feel for how much momentum can be taken into a corner and this allows him to be minimal in his inputs—his steering and throttle movements in particular tend to be graceful and beautifully co-ordinated."  This allows him to perform well in tricky conditions, such as his maiden win in the 2006 Hungarian Grand Prix . Many believe using his smooth style he can conserve his tyres better during race conditions than other drivers.  However, his smooth style can also mean he struggles to generate the necessary tyre temperature on cool days or undemanding tracks.  , Coupled with his driving style, Button has demonstrated intelligent race decisions such as his pit stop strategy during the 2010 Australian Grand Prix .  Jackie Stewart drew similarities with the driving style and racecraft of Alain Prost .  In an interview in 2003, Button said about Prost: "His way of driving was so smooth. He is the person I have modelled myself on".  However, he contradicted himself in 2009, when he said, "I've never tried to model myself on anyone. I don't think many people do when they are pursuing their career."  Parallels have also been made with the McLaren partnership and rivalry to 2008 World Champion Lewis Hamilton to the Prost-Senna rivalry of the 1980s, though the latter clearly had a more tempestuous relationship.  , Like many Formula One drivers , Button resides in the principality of Monaco , although he did live in Guernsey for 18 months before returning to Monaco in 2012. He also has properties in the UK and Bahrain.   His hobbies include mountain biking , competing in triathlons and body boarding , and his car collection includes a Nissan GT-R , a 1956 VW Campervan , a Honda S600 and a Mercedes C63 AMG , numerous Ferraris (including an Enzo ) and his championship winning Brawn BGP 001 . In 2013, Button announced his plans to sell his red Ferrari Enzo at an auction.  He previously owned a blue Honda NSX Type R and a blue on black Bugatti Veyron .  , He was engaged to the actress and singer Louise Griffiths before ending their five-year relationship in May 2005.  In 2009, Button began dating model Jessica Michibata .  On 14 February 2014  Button proposed to Michibata,  and the two married in Hawaii in December 2014.  , Button has at least three tattoos: a black coat button on his right forearm; a large tribal design encompassing his left shoulder and upper chest; and Japanese kanji -characters on his ankle which says "一番" ( Ichi ban , "Number One" in Japanese) ; this was done before he won the world title, and is the name of Button's triathlon team. Since mid-2010, the same legend has appeared on Button's race helmet.  Button is also a brand ambassador for Head & Shoulders , and has appeared in advertising campaigns for the company.  , Button is also involved in charitable work through the creation of The Jenson Button Trust.  Established in March 2010, the Trust provides donations to a number of charitable causes. Each year the Trust will select and nominate charitable beneficiaries to which the funds will be distributed. , On 5 September 2011, Button opened a restaurant on Beulah Street in Harrogate called Victus,  but it closed after less than a year in trading. Button's manager Richard Goddard said "unfortunately the business was launched in an economy which then continued to slide and just hasn’t stopped, with people simply not having the disposable income needed to spend in restaurants."  , On 12 January 2014, Button's father John died at his home on the French Riviera, aged 70. John, whom Jenson called "Papa Smurf", is thought to have died from a heart attack. John was a constant member of Jenson's small entourage.  , * Season in progress. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position, races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap)  Fernando Alonso Díaz   audio   ( help · info ) (born 29 July 1981  ) is a Spanish Formula One racing driver and a double World Champion who is currently racing for McLaren - Honda .  , Alonso started in karting from the age of 3. He won three consecutive karting championships in Spain from 1994 to 1997, and he became world karting champion in 1996. He made his Formula One debut in the 2001 season with Minardi , and then moved to the Renault team as a test driver the next year . Starting in 2003 Alonso then became one of the main drivers of the team. On 25 September 2005, he won the Formula One World Drivers' Championship title at the age of 24 years and 58 days, at the time making him the youngest Formula One World Drivers' Champion. After retaining the title the following year, Alonso also became the youngest double Champion at the time. He joined McLaren in 2007 , before returning to Renault for two seasons in 2008 and 2009 , and in 2010 , he joined Scuderia Ferrari .   Although Alonso did not reach his goal of winning a third title while at Ferrari he managed to finish runner up on three occasions ( 2010 , 2012 and 2013 ) as well as winning eleven Grands Prix with the team and clearly beating his team mates for points in all five seasons. His strongest title challenges were in 2010 and 2012, finishing both seasons just adrift of title winner Sebastian Vettel . , Nicknamed El Nano , a typical pseudonym for Fernando in Asturias , his place of birth, Alonso acts as a Goodwill Ambassador for UNICEF .  Alonso also had become the youngest driver to win a pole position and Grand Prix respectively in the 2003 Malaysian Grand Prix and the 2003 Hungarian Grand Prix ,   before both records were broken by Sebastian Vettel in the 2008 Italian Grand Prix .  With his fourth-place finish in the 2013 Japanese Grand Prix , scoring his 1,571st career point, Alonso took over the record for most championship points in his career . As of March 2015 [update] , Alonso is the only Spanish driver to have won a Formula One Grand Prix and is the driver with the sixth highest number of Grand Prix wins .  , Fernando Alonso was born in Oviedo , Asturias in northern Spain. His mother worked in a department store and his father was employed as a mechanic in an explosives factory near Oviedo.  Alonso has an older sister, Lorena. Alonso's father José Luis, an amateur kart racer, wanted to pass on his passion to his children. He built a kart, originally meant for eight-year-old Lorena, but unlike her three-year-old brother, she showed no interest in the sport.  , Alonso attended the Holy Guardian Angel Primary School in Oviedo until he was 14 when he later attended the Institute Leopoldo Alas Clarín of San Lazaro. He dropped out in 2000 as his commitment to motor racing prevented him from further studying.  , Since winning his first world championship in 2005, Alonso became an ambassor of the University of Oxford, to promote the new field of study of Motorsport of Business for Social Science financing 12 students from all parts of the world.  , Alonso lived in Oxford , England until he moved his residence to Switzerland in 2006. Alonso owned a house in Mont-sur-Rolle , near Lake Geneva from 2006 to 2010, and in February 2010 he moved house to Lugano in order to be closer to his new Formula One employer Ferrari. It is highly common for Formula One stars to take up residence in Switzerland to reduce their tax bills . In the winter of 2010–11, Alonso moved back to Oviedo in order to be closer to friends and family, costing him an estimated £50 million in tax.  , Alonso married Raquel del Rosario , lead singer of Spanish pop band El Sueño de Morfeo ,  on 17 November 2006.  They announced their intention to divorce in December 2011.  In mid-2012, Alonso started dating Russian model Dasha Kapustina .  The couple split in 2014.  Since early 2015, Alonso has been dating Spanish journalist Lara Alvarez.  , Alonso is a supporter of the football teams Real Madrid and Real Oviedo .  , In addition to Spanish, he speaks English, Italian and French.  , Alonso has a tattoo of an ancient samurai on his back. He revealed that the tattoo showed strength in his muscles, intelligence and force of will with inspiration from the Hagaware, the spiritual guide written by Yamamoto Tsunetomo in the 18th century.   , As a child, Alonso participated in karting competitions around Spain, supported by his father, who also doubled as his mechanic. His family lacked the financial resources needed to develop a career in motorsport, but his victories attracted sponsorship and the required funds. Alonso won four Spanish championships back-to-back in the junior category, between 1993 and 1996 and the Junior World Cup in 1996. He won the Spanish and Italian Inter-A titles in 1997 and in 1998 won the Spanish Inter-A title again as well as finishing second in the European Championship.  , Former Minardi F1 driver Adrián Campos gave Alonso his first test in a race car in October 1998. After three days of testing at the Albacete circuit, Alonso had matched the lap times of Campos' previous driver Marc Gené .  Campos signed Alonso to race for him in the 1999 Spanish Euro Open MoviStar by Nissan series.  In his second race, again at Albacete, Alonso won for the first time. He took the championship by one point from championship rival Manuel Giao by winning and setting fastest lap at the last race of the season. Alonso also tested for the Minardi Formula One team, lapping 1.5 seconds faster than the other drivers at the test.  , The following season Alonso moved up to Formula 3000 , which was often the final step for drivers before ascending to Formula One. Alonso joined Team Astromega and was the youngest driver in the series that year by eleven months.  Alonso did not score a point until the seventh race of the year, but in the final two rounds he took a second place and a victory, enough for him to end the season fourth overall behind Bruno Junqueira , Nicolas Minassian and Mark Webber .  , Alonso was the third-youngest driver ever to start a Formula One race when he made his debut with Minardi at the Australian Grand Prix . The team was in its first season under the control of new owner Paul Stoddart and their new car, the PS01, was neither fast nor reliable. However Alonso's qualifying performance was good, outqualifying team-mate Tarso Marques by 2.6 seconds on début. At the fourth round at Imola he outqualified both Benettons, a feat he repeated later in the season.  , Notable performances over the season earned him some attention from the faster teams. It was reported in September 2001 by some of the European press that Sauber were looking to replace outgoing Kimi Räikkönen with Alonso although he was facing competition for the seat from Felipe Massa and then Jaguar test driver André Lotterer .  A month later it was confirmed that Massa was going to take the vacant Sauber seat for 2002.  , In September, his manager Flavio Briatore had begun planning to place Alonso at Benetton. Briatore considered promoting Alonso for 2002, in place of his race driver Jenson Button , but instead chose to take Alonso on as Renault test driver for 2002.  At the final round of the season at Suzuka he finished eleventh—five places outside the points but ahead of Heinz-Harald Frentzen 's Prost , the BAR of Olivier Panis , the two Arrows and his team-mate Alex Yoong .  Four years later, his team boss from the Minardi days, Paul Stoddart, described his race as "53 laps of qualifying".  He scored no points in the season and finished between his team-mates Marques and Yoong in the standings; his best finish being tenth at the German Grand Prix . , Alonso became test driver for Renault in 2002 (Renault having taken over the Benetton team) and did 1,642 laps of testing that year. In 2003 Briatore dropped Button and put Alonso in the second seat alongside Jarno Trulli .  Briatore was criticised by the British media for the decision, but technical director Mike Gascoyne later insisted to F1 Racing that the decision was correct, since the team had been impressed with Alonso's work rate and talent during his season as test driver. , The Spaniard became the youngest driver to achieve a Formula One pole position at the Malaysian Grand Prix . Alonso had a 180 mph crash at the Brazilian Grand Prix , the result of missing the double yellow flags and Safety Car boards brought out by Mark Webber's earlier crash and colliding with the debris.  The race was red-flagged. He finished second at his home grand prix two races later, and at the time became the youngest driver to win a Formula One race at the Hungarian Grand Prix . He finished the year sixth in the championship, with 55 points and four podiums. , Alonso remained with Renault for the 2004 season, scoring podiums in Australia , France , Germany and Hungary . At Indianapolis he suffered a high-speed accident while running in third place after a tyre deflated. In France he took pole position and finished second, running Michael Schumacher close for victory. Towards the end of the year teammate Jarno Trulli's results deteriorated and he was replaced for the final three races of the season by former world champion Jacques Villeneuve . Alonso ended the year fourth in the championship standings with 59 points. , For the 2005 season, Alonso was joined at Renault by Italian driver Giancarlo Fisichella . At the first race in Australia Alonso started near the back due to rain in qualifying but fought his way to third.  He won the next two races in Malaysia and Bahrain from pole position, and took a third win in the San Marino Grand Prix after a 13-lap battle with Michael Schumacher.  Alonso would much later reveal that he won the San Marino Grand Prix with a crippled engine, which Renault discovered after qualifying and decided would probably last the race if they treated it differently, rather than receive a 10 place grid penalty for an engine change.  , McLaren 's improving form saw Räikkönen win in Spain and Monaco while Alonso finished second and fourth, respectively. Räikkönen was on course to win the European Grand Prix at the Nürburgring when his car's front-right suspension failed (due to a flat spot on the tyre caused by Räikkönen locking his wheels under braking while passing Jacques Villeneuve) on the last lap, giving victory to Alonso. , Alonso failed to score in the Canadian and United States Grands Prix. He crashed out of the former, and in the latter all the Michelin runners withdrew due to safety concerns over their tyres. Alonso took his third pole position and fifth win at the French Grand Prix . He followed this with pole position a week later at the British Grand Prix , where he finished second behind Montoya. McLaren's Kimi Räikkönen led the German Grand Prix until his car's hydraulics failed. Alonso went on to win the race. , Alonso qualified sixth in the Hungarian Grand Prix but finished 11th after a collision with the Toyota of Ralf Schumacher . As the season entered its final stages Alonso finished second in three consecutive races, collecting vital championship points. Räikkönen won in Turkey and Belgium , but was fourth at Monza after engine trouble in qualifying, meaning Alonso's lead had been reduced by only one point. , Alonso sealed the title by finishing third in Brazil while Montoya won from Räikkönen. The Spaniard became the youngest Drivers' Champion at the age of 24 years and 59 days old, breaking Emerson Fittipaldi 's record. He also ended the five-year dominance of Michael Schumacher.  , Commenting on his victory, he said: "I just want to dedicate this championship to my family, and all my close friends who have supported me through my career. Spain is not a country with an F1 culture, and we had to fight alone, every step of the way, to make this happen. A huge thank-you should also go to the team as well – they are the best in Formula One, and we have done this together. It will say that I am world champion, but we are all champions – and they deserve this." In the May 2007 issue of F1 Racing , Alonso said that the 2005 Brazilian Grand Prix was his greatest race. He said, "It was a dream come true and a very emotional day. In the last few laps I leaped, thinking I could hear noises from the engine- from everywhere! But all was okay and I can remember my relief when I crossed the finish line." , The Japanese and Chinese Grands Prix saw Alonso and Renault abandon the conservative style evident in Brazil when he was still chasing the drivers' title. Starting from 16th on the grid, he eventually finished third behind Räikkönen and Fisichella. The Chinese Grand Prix saw Renault and Alonso win to claim the first Constructors' Championship for the Renault F1 team. , In 2005, he was awarded the Prince of Asturias Award for Sports .  , Alonso won the first race of the 2006 season in Bahrain , overtaking Michael Schumacher after coming out of the pit lane with 18 laps left, after starting fourth. He qualified seventh at the Malaysian Grand Prix due to a fuelling error   but finished second to team mate Giancarlo Fisichella. He won the Australian Grand Prix after overtaking leader Jenson Button's Honda. , After poor qualifying at San Marino , Alonso was unable to pass Michael Schumacher in an encounter that echoed their battle the previous year. Schumacher beat Alonso again in the European Grand Prix after the Spaniard started on pole, but Alonso hit back, becoming the first Spaniard to win the Spanish Grand Prix. Alonso took pole position for the Monaco Grand Prix after Schumacher was penalised by the stewards for "deliberately [stopping] his car on the circuit in the last few minutes of qualifying", denying his rivals, Alonso included, the opportunity of recording fastest qualifying lap.  Alonso won the race. , He extended his winning streak to four races with victories in Britain and Canada . Both wins came from pole position, and the British round was his first win, pole and fastest lap hat trick. He also became the first driver in history to finish first or second in the first nine races of the season, a record equalled by Sebastian Vettel in 2011. [ citation needed ] Schumacher's fight back began at Indianapolis where the German won and Alonso was fifth. Schumacher won the French Grand Prix , with Alonso in second, and the Spaniard was fifth in the German Grand Prix .  That cut Alonso's championship lead to 11 points. , Alonso incurred a penalty for an infraction in practice at the Hungarian Grand Prix which left him 15th on the grid.  Schumacher started 11th after receiving a similar penalty.  Alonso looked set for an unlikely win as he overtook most of the field, including Schumacher around the outside of turn five, as he showed prowess in the wet conditions, but he crashed out of the race when a wheel nut fell off his car following a pit stop. Schumacher scored one point after Robert Kubica was disqualified.  , Alonso finished second in Turkey , holding back third-placed Schumacher to claim two vital points, but he lost a lot of ground after a controversial Italian Grand Prix . He suffered a puncture during qualifying that damaged bodywork at the back of his car. He qualified fifth but was later punished  by the stewards for impeding Felipe Massa 's Ferrari,  and he started the race from tenth. In the race he rose to third place before an engine failure forced him to retire. Schumacher won the Grand Prix and cut Alonso's Championship lead to two points. , At the following round in China , Alonso took pole position during a wet qualifying session but finished second to Schumacher in the race. The result tied Alonso and Schumacher on points in the drivers championship. At the Japanese Grand Prix , the Ferraris of Schumacher and Massa qualified first and second, more than half a second faster than the Renaults in fifth and sixth. But during the race Alonso rose to second and took the win after Schumacher's engine failed. It gave him a ten-point advantage over Schumacher, needing only one point from the final round to retain the title. Second place in the Brazilian Grand Prix on 22 October gave Alonso the championship. With Schumacher finishing fourth, the final difference was 13 points. Alonso thus became the youngest double champion in the sport's history. Renault also clinched the Constructors' Championship with a 5-point gap over Ferrari. , On 19 December 2005, Alonso announced that he would be moving to McLaren for 2007.  His contract with Renault was set to expire on 31 December 2006. However, on 15 December 2006, Alonso was allowed by Flavio Briatore and the Renault F1 Team to test for one day for McLaren at Jerez , as a result of his successes with Renault. Driving an unbranded MP4-21 and wearing a plain white helmet and overalls, Alonso completed 95 laps.  Lewis Hamilton was chosen as his partner for the season. McLaren were reported to be paying Alonso £  20 million (approx $39 million c. 2007) in 2007. Alonso debuted with the new McLaren car on 15 January 2007, in the streets of Valencia . , On 8 April 2007 in his second race for the team, Alonso secured his first win for McLaren, and the team's first since 2005, by leading the majority of the Malaysian Grand Prix . A difficult drive at Bahrain's Sakhir circuit a week later, saw him finishing fifth behind his rookie team mate who took a podium finish. In the fourth race of the year in Spain, his home grand prix, he qualified second, but suffered a first lap collision with Felipe Massa which caused some damage to his car and dropped him to fourth, before finishing third. On 27 May, Alonso secured his second victory for McLaren at Monaco , scoring pole position, fastest lap and the race win and in the process lapping the entire field up to 3rd position. At the Nürburgring he took his third win of the year in a dramatic race affected by intermittent rain showers, overtaking Massa for the lead with just four laps remaining. After the controversy at the Hungarian Grand Prix (see below), however, relations between Alonso and his team declined. It was reported in the media that he was no longer on speaking terms with Hamilton,  and it was speculated that he might leave McLaren at the end of the season.  On 7 August 2007 The Times reported that McLaren would let Alonso leave the team at the end of the season if he wished, two years earlier than his contract allowed.  Alonso went on to finish third in the driver's championship, level on points with team-mate Hamilton and just one point behind World Champion Kimi Räikkönen (the closest 1–2–3 in WDC history). , As part of the espionage controversy between McLaren and Ferrari, the former were found guilty of breaching the Article 151c of the FIA's sporting regulations but went unpunished due to a lack of evidence. However, following the acquisition of new evidence by the FIA, a new hearing was held on 13 September. The new evidence consisted largely of email traffic between Alonso and test driver Pedro de la Rosa .  The FIA's World Motor Sport Council report following the hearing stated that Alonso and de la Rosa had obtained and used confidential Ferrari technical data and sporting strategy information from senior McLaren engineer Mike Coughlan via Ferrari employee Nigel Stepney , including during test sessions. Both drivers were spared sanctions in exchange for providing evidence. , On 2 November 2007, after a turbulent year with McLaren, it was announced that McLaren and Alonso had mutually agreed to terminate his contract and that he would be free to join any team for 2008 without paying McLaren any compensation.  , Alonso was linked with several teams for the 2008 season after his split with McLaren. Renault, Red Bull, Toyota and Honda were all suggested in the media. Renault's Flavio Briatore stated that he would welcome Alonso's return to the French team. On 10 December 2007, Alonso signed a two-year contract to drive for Renault alongside Brazilian driver Nelson Piquet, Jr. for around £25 million.   , In the first two rounds of the 2008 season, the Renault was not as competitive as it had previously been. Alonso finished fourth and eighth in Australia and Malaysia respectively, fuelling rumours that Alonso would leave the team because he was disappointed with his Renault and was either moving to BMW Sauber , Honda or Toyota. BMW boss Mario Theissen was keen to get Alonso to replace Nick Heidfeld in order to get the team their first win. Honda rumours started when Alonso said in an interview that he felt there was something about Honda and he wanted to drive for them in 2009 and switching to Ferrari in 2010 . Toyota said they were eager to give a top driver their seat. But the most likely place that Alonso would go was to replace Felipe Massa at Ferrari in 2009 , especially in light of the general belief that there was an "out clause" in Fernando Alonso's contract with Renault which would give him the freedom to move to another team for the next season should he be able to secure a deal. However Ferrari president Luca Cordero di Montezemolo stated that Massa's seat in the team was secure and would stay that way until the end of his contract in 2010.  Räikkönen was also given a two-year contract extension to partner Massa until the end of 2010,  essentially closing the door on Alonso for a possible move to Ferrari. In 2008, Alonso denied the "out clause" rumour. , In the Bahrain Grand Prix , Lewis Hamilton ran into the back of Alonso's Renault, heavily damaging the rear wing of the Spaniard's car, as well as his own nosecone. Stewards did not seek to investigate the incident but critics alleged he braked (or did not accelerate as expected) in front of Hamilton causing Hamilton to crash into him.  The telemetry data from Alonso's car proved these accusations to be wrong.  Hamilton himself stated "I was behind him, and I moved to the right, and he moved to the right and that was it – a racing incident I guess".  It was later revealed by McLaren that Hamilton's front wing, which was damaged when he hit Alonso earlier in the race, had broken seconds before the impact and has been identified as the cause of the crash. Alonso started the Spanish Grand Prix with promising pace, qualifying on the front row in second place behind Kimi Räikkönen even though he had a light fuel load. He was running in fifth place when his engine blew on lap 35. He praised his team after finishing sixth in the Turkish Grand Prix , as he was behind the more competitive BMW cars at the end, and said that the result "confirms the progress we have made, and is thanks to the hard work of everyone in the team". [ citation needed ] , Alonso failed to score in the next two races, finishing tenth at the Monaco Grand Prix , after puncturing a tyre against the barrier and a collision with Nick Heidfeld and retiring from the Canadian Grand Prix after crashing into the wall on lap 45, having qualified fourth. Alonso had been keeping pace with the BMW Saubers, who would eventually go on to record their maiden win with Robert Kubica after pitlane dramas plagued both Ferrari and McLaren. In France , Alonso qualified behind the two Ferraris in third, aided by Lewis Hamilton 's grid penalty for the pit-lane accident in Canada. However, he was on a light fuel load, and his task was made much harder by being beaten by the slower Toyota of Jarno Trulli at the start. He then faded back to seventh and towards the end of the race while catching Mark Webber's Red Bull he ran wide at the Adelaide hairpin and slipped behind team-mate Piquet, Jr. to finish eighth. , Alonso finished sixth at Silverstone , saying that he had used up all of his available tyres for the unpredictable wet conditions, and that by using practically slick tyres towards the end, he lost a lot of time in certain places on the track. Despite qualifying fifth at the German Grand Prix , he finished in eleventh after spinning off whilst battling with the Williams of Nico Rosberg . In the Hungarian Grand Prix , he finished in fourth place having started seventh, aided by Lewis Hamilton 's early puncture and Felipe Massa 's engine failing in the closing stages. , In the European Grand Prix , Alonso performed strongly in all three practice sessions and the first round of qualifying. However, he failed to make it through the second round of qualifying, starting 12th. During the opening lap of the race, Alonso was hit by Kazuki Nakajima in the rear wing of his car and sustained unrepairable damage to his gearbox, and was forced to retire from the race. In Belgium , Alonso ran in the top five for most of the race, but when heavy rain fell towards the end of the race, he gambled on pitting for wet tyres with one lap to go. He dropped four places, but a fast final lap saw him reclaim the lost spots, passing Kubica and Sebastian Vettel at the final corner. In the Italian Grand Prix , Alonso achieved his second consecutive fourth place, and allowed Renault to equal Toyota for fourth in the constructors standings. , Alonso claimed his first victory and podium of the season by winning the Singapore Grand Prix . After performing strongly in practice, a fuel pressure problem in the second part of qualifying forced him to park the car, causing him to qualify 15th. In the race he started with a light fuel load on soft tyres, and pitted early when he realised that this would not be successful. However, team-mate Piquet crashed bringing out the safety car, which eliminated the lead of the frontrunners. When they pitted after the pit lane was reopened, they rejoined behind those who had already stopped. This moved Alonso up among top six, and he ultimately won the race, earning the 20th win and 50th podium of his career. In September 2009, after being dropped by Renault, Piquet said that the crash had been intentional and had been requested by Flavio Briatore and Pat Symonds. Alonso was declared to be innocent by the subsequent FIA investigation. , Alonso carried his good form into the Japanese Grand Prix , for which he qualified fourth.  Running on a two stop strategy Alonso won his second successive race, finishing ahead of Kubica and Räikkönen. In the last 2 races in China and Brazil , Alonso scored a fourth and a second place respectively. In the last eight races of the season Alonso scored 48 points, which was more than any other driver (over the same period Massa scored 43 points and Hamilton scored 40 points). He finished the season fifth overall with 61 points, while also enabling Renault to finish fourth in the constructors standings with 80 points, ahead of fifth-placed Toyota. , On 5 November, Flavio Briatore confirmed that Renault had agreed a two-year extension on Alonso's original contract, ending speculation about a supposed move to Ferrari, and a Renault contract "out-clause". , The new Renault R29 car did not meet up to Alonso's expectations at the start of the year, after it performed poorly in winter testing, despite the fact that there were no major reliability issues. For the second consecutive year, Nelson Piquet, Jr. would be his team-mate. , In the Australian Grand Prix he avoided a first lap accident and benefited from the late safety car in the closing stages, deployed for Robert Kubica and Sebastian Vettel's collision, to finish fifth. Although pleased to score points, he was "disappointed" at how his KERS system worked during the race. He did not score points in Malaysia (eleventh) or China (ninth, after he qualified in second), finishing over a minute behind the race winner on both occasions. , He finished eighth in the Bahrain Grand Prix , despite struggling with a broken drinks bottle during the race, which resulted in him collapsing with dehydration during a post-race TV interview. In Spain he spent most of the race in sixth despite an exciting battle with Mark Webber early on, before capitalising on Felipe Massa backing off with fuel conservation worries on the last lap, and going on to finish fifth. In Monaco , he benefited from the retirements of Heikki Kovalainen and Sebastian Vettel to score two points for seventh after a steady performance from ninth on the grid. , He failed to score any points in Turkey , as he was unable to keep pace with the frontrunners, and struggled on to finish tenth, while in Britain , he lost places at the start, and got stuck behind Nick Heidfeld early on. Despite some good fights, especially with former teammate Lewis Hamilton , the poor pace of his car meant he was always likely to struggle for points and finished in 14th, two places behind team-mate Piquet. At the Nurburgring , Alonso lost places at the first corner, before getting stuck in traffic. However, he went on to finish seventh, and was catching the two Brawn cars of Jenson Button and Rubens Barrichello towards the end. For the last stint, he was the fastest man on the track, half a second quicker than the leaders, which resulted in the fastest lap of the race. , In Hungary , he took his only pole position of the season (on a short fuel load), and led for the first stint of the race until his retirement, when his pit-crew fitted a wheel incorrectly. After replacing the wheel, Alonso retired with a fuel pump problem. In Valencia , he finished in sixth place, describing it was the best he could do, after his team appealed successfully over a one-race ban suspended for the race after the pit-stop incident in Hungary. However, his fastest race lap was slower than new team-mate Romain Grosjean , replacing the sacked Piquet, despite Grosjean spending most of the race towards the back. , Alonso was forced to retire in Belgium in a near repeat of the front tyre incident in Hungary, although this time the tyre was damaged after contact with Adrian Sutil 's Force India on the first lap. This led to a chaotic pit stop when a replacement tyre could not be fitted properly and his team chose to retire him on safety grounds to avoid a further sanction following the Hungarian incident. At Monza he finished fifth, passing McLaren's Heikki Kovalainen during the race, despite again complaining about the car's KERS system, particularly after getting away from the grid poorly. , He finished in a strong third place in Singapore , admitting that it was a great result, "allowing to put behind us the past few weeks". However, this was his and Renault's only podium of 2009, a year after the Crashgate saga. Alonso controversially dedicated his podium afterwards to recently departed team boss Flavio Briatore , saying "he is part of the success we had today".  , In Japan , he was penalised five grid places for failing to slow down for yellow flags after Sébastien Buemi crashed, scattering debris onto the track. The R29's pace was again disappointing, when he could only manage to climb up to 10th from 16th place on the grid, despite a late safety car period after Jaime Alguersuari crashed heavily. Alonso said that his race was pretty much decided in qualifying, although he admitted that his car seemed to be fairly competitive. In Brazil however, he retired on the first lap when Adrian Sutil and Jarno Trulli collided, and Alonso was unable to avoid the out-of-control Force India, which had spun onto the wet grass, terminally damaging a sidepod on the Spaniard's car, forcing him to retire. , He admitted that he had wanted to end his successful period at Renault on a high at the final race of the year in Abu Dhabi . However, he spent the whole race towards the back of the grid, and finished 14th after qualifying in 16th. After the race, he paid tribute to Renault, saying that he wanted "to thank the entire team for everything that we have achieved together", [ citation needed ] and wanted to concentrate on the positives during his time with Renault, which had included winning the 2005 and 2006 world championship titles. He finished ninth in the drivers standings overall, scoring all of Renault's 26 points during the season. As a result, Renault only finished eighth in the constructors ahead of two other teams, Force India and Toro Rosso . , After much speculation,  on 30 September 2009, Alonso was confirmed to be replacing Kimi Räikkönen at the Ferrari team, partnering Felipe Massa ,  a move known as "the worst-kept secret in F1".  His contract covers three seasons (2010–2012),  with speculated options until the end of 2014. Though his contract is said to have been signed as early as July 2008,  Alonso confirmed only having a Summer-2009 agreement with Ferrari for a 2011 start, which was later changed to 2010.  Ferrari and Räikkönen, whom Alonso would replace, had agreed to end their contract one year early.   Though it was reported that Alonso's contract was worth €25-million per season,  Ferrari released a statement that cast doubts over the salary offered, stating that "the numbers talked about have absolutely nothing to do with reality."  Ferrari also cast doubt on "the arrival of technicians" with Alonso.  , At the first race in Bahrain, Alonso qualified third behind team mate Massa and pole sitter Sebastian Vettel . At the start, Alonso passed Massa and later passed leader Vettel who had an engine problem. Alonso won the race, becoming the fifth man to win on his debut for Ferrari after Fangio in 1956, Andretti in 1971, Mansell in 1989, and Räikkönen in 2007. In Australia , Alonso qualified third behind the two Red Bulls . At the start, on a damp track, Alonso was tipped off by eventual race winner Jenson Button , and rejoined last. Alonso charged back to finish fourth, only two seconds behind teammate Felipe Massa . In China Alonso qualified third again, but was given a drive-through penalty for jumping the start and dropped down to 15th, before finishing fourth with the aid of a safety car and several passes. , In Spain , Alonso qualified fourth and remained there until the closing stages, when Vettel's brake problems and Hamilton's tyre failure elevated him to second. In Monaco , Alonso crashed his car in practice and was unable to take part in qualifying. He started 24th and last but charged up to sixth. On the last lap, Michael Schumacher passed him under the safety car to take the place, but was then penalized for the overtaking, giving sixth back to Alonso. In Canada , Alonso started and finished in third place. In Valencia , Alonso started fourth and finished eighth after getting caught behind the safety car which was deployed after Mark Webber's somersault over Heikki Kovalainen. , At the British Grand Prix at Silverstone , Alonso lined up third on the grid. However, a poor start, a drive-through penalty for an illegal pass on Kubica and a late puncture left Alonso to finish in fourteenth place, a minute behind race winner Mark Webber. In Germany , Alonso missed pole position by 0.002 seconds to Vettel. At the start, Vettel was passed by Alonso and Massa. Alonso then controversially overtook Massa and they crossed the line in that order to give Ferrari a 1–2 finish. In Hungary , Alonso qualified third behind the two Red Bulls, and finished second after Vettel was handed a drive-through penalty. In Belgium , Alonso qualified tenth. When the race started, he was hit from behind by Rubens Barrichello's Williams. Alonso recovered to eighth before spinning out of the race in the closing stages. , In Italy , Alonso claimed pole from Jenson Button, but trailed Button by the first corner. Alonso passed Button during the pitstops and claimed his 24th career win, his third of the season, and Ferrari's first win at Monza since 2006 . Alonso also claimed fastest lap along with his pole and victory. In Singapore , Alonso took pole position from Vettel and the McLarens. At the start, Alonso retained his lead and soaked up pressure from Vettel for the entire race, crossing the line less than 0.3 seconds ahead of the Red Bull. Alonso again set the fastest lap of the race in the closing stages. In Japan , Alonso finished third, behind Vettel and Webber, then won in Korea after Vettel retired with engine failure. He also scored his fifth fastest lap of the year, enough to give him the 2010 DHL Fastest Lap Award after a countback with Lewis Hamilton .  , At the final race of the season in Abu Dhabi , Alonso entered the event with an eight-point lead, and qualified third. At the start of the race he lost a place to Button and then a strategic error by his team meant that Alonso spent the rest of the race stuck behind Vitaly Petrov , and lost out on world championship honours to Sebastian Vettel .  , Alonso started the season with a fourth place in Australia , finishing half a minute behind race-winner Sebastian Vettel. He followed that up with sixth and seventh places in Malaysia and China , being outperformed by team-mate Massa in both races. He took his first podium of the season with third at the Turkish Grand Prix , having run second for a time and was only passed by Mark Webber on lap 51 of 58. Prior to his home race in Spain , he extended his contract with Ferrari for a further four years, until the end of 2016.  In Spain , Alonso qualified third, and took the race lead into the first turn. However, he was overtaken by the Red Bulls in the first set of pit stops, and eventually finished fifth, one lap down. In Monaco , after qualifying fourth, Alonso was running strongly in third place behind Vettel – who was on heavily worn tyres – and Button, and was promoted to second when Button pitted after being unable to pass Vettel. A multi car crash then resulted in a red flag situation, allowing Vettel and Alonso to change to fresh tyres for the restart, with Alonso finishing the race in second. , Alonso was forced to retire in Canada after contact with Button left his car beached on a kerb. He bounced back to finish second in Valencia . At the British Grand Prix , controversial blown diffuser systems were temporarily banned, which was perceived to give Ferrari an advantage over its rivals. Alonso was running second to Vettel in the race, until a mistake from the Red Bull mechanics in a pit stop gave Alonso the lead, which he maintained until the end of the race to take his first victory of the season. Alonso finished second in Germany after a race-long battle with eventual winner Lewis Hamilton, and Mark Webber. He took his fourth successive podium by finishing third in Hungary , before finishing fourth in Belgium , after being overtaken by Webber and Button in the closing stages. Alonso took the lead of the Italian Grand Prix in the first corner, but was later passed by Vettel and Button. He was able to defend third place from Hamilton at the end of the race to take another podium. Alonso finished second to Button in Japan , and added a third place in India and second in Abu Dhabi . Alonso closed the season with fourth in Brazil to finish fourth in the Drivers' Championship, losing third place to Webber by one point, after Webber won the race. , Having signed a contract extension during the 2011 season, Alonso remained with Ferrari for the 2012 season.  Ferrari appeared to be struggling for pace in pre-season testing; in qualifying for the Australian Grand Prix , Alonso qualified 12th after spinning into the gravel during the second part of qualifying. He recovered in the race to finish 5th. At the next race in Malaysia , the Ferrari's lack of pace was again demonstrated with Alonso qualifying ninth. However, in the race, which started in wet conditions, Alonso rose through the field to take the lead on lap 16. Sauber's Sergio Pérez began to catch Alonso, despite a slow pit stop, and looked to be close to passing Alonso, until he ran wide, giving Alonso an unexpected first win of the season. Alonso finished third in the Monaco Grand Prix putting him into the lead of the Drivers' Championship this season ahead of Sebastian Vettel, the 2011 champion, and Vettel's team-mate at Red Bull, Mark Webber, who won at Monaco. However, a fifth place in the Canadian Grand Prix behind Lewis Hamilton's first and Sebastian Vettel's fourth put him behind Hamilton in the championship table. , Alonso regained the championship lead at the European Grand Prix , starting 11th on the grid and climbing his way up to win the race after Vettel and Hamilton both retired. At the next round at Silverstone , Alonso took Ferrari's first pole since 2010, edging out Red Bull driver Mark Webber in a rain-hit session. He finished the race three seconds adrift of Webber in second place. He again started from pole position after a wet qualifying session at the German Grand Prix , and won the race to extend his championship lead.  At the Belgian Grand Prix , he was involved in a first-corner incident with four other drivers, and retired on the spot. At the Japanese Grand Prix Alonso was hit from behind at the first corner and retired. Alonso again lost the championship to Sebastian Vettel on the final day, finishing 3 points behind in the standings. , Alonso started the season by qualifying fifth in Australia ; by the end of the first lap he had moved up to third. He eventually managed to use the pit stops to his advantage by pitting early and jumping Vettel. Alonso held onto second until the end of the race. In Malaysia , Alonso qualified on the second row of the grid in third. Going into the second corner he tapped the back of Vettel and damaged his front wing, the team told him to stay out instead of pitting, hoping that the wing would not break, so that Alonso would be able to pit for slick tyres at the right time. However while going down the main straight at the start of the second lap, his front wing broke off and went underneath his car sending it into the gravel trap and into retirement. Alonso then won his home race, the Spanish Grand Prix , by fighting through from fifth; however, seventh place in Monaco after that again lost him points and left him 29 points behind Vettel. , As the season moved into its second half Pirelli introduced new tires, and Red Bull and Sebastian Vettel began to dominate qualifying and races, with Alonso struggling to score podium finishes. Alonso again finished runner-up to Vettel in the world championship. , A new rule for the 2014 season was that the drivers picked a unique car number they would use for the rest of their Formula One career. Alonso picked number 14 as he used the number in his karting career and considers it to be a lucky number.  Alonso and Ferrari had a difficult season, but went close to winning the Hungarian Grand Prix , before being overtaken by Daniel Ricciardo only a couple of laps before the finish.  Alonso finished sixth in the championship, with only one other podium, a third-place finish in China . In spite of his worst championship position during his time with Ferrari, he was far ahead of team-mate Kimi Räikkönen in the championship. , In November 2014 both Alonso and Scuderia Ferrari announced that the 2014 season would be his last with the team. In December 2014 it was announced that Alonso would return to McLaren for the first time since 2007 on what has been reported to be a two-year deal with an option for extension. After protracted speculation it was announced that 2009 world champion Jenson Button would race alongside him in 2015 , beating rookie Dane Kevin Magnussen to the drive.  , On the second day of the Barcelona pre-season test Alonso had an accident at turn 3. He was airlifted to the General Hospital de Catalunya in Sant Cugat del Vallès , where he underwent scans which found that he had suffered a concussion .  After regaining consciousness, some newspapers engaged in unconfirmed reports stating that Alonso suffered from retrograde amnesia in which he had no memories beyond 1995 and believed that he was still a karting driver.  However, Alonso firmly denied this upon his Grand Prix return in Malaysia, saying that it was just a fun story that he read in the papers and did not actually happen.  He also said that he did not know what caused the crash and suspected a faulty steering column, saying that "not even a hurricane" could have caused the car to crash.  He also said that he never lost consciousness upon impact, and that it was because of medication being given to him prior to the helicopter ride for the MRI scan and that he had remembered everything before the impact as well as his reaction immediately afterwards.  Alonso was released from hospital on 4 March and was advised to miss the Australian Grand Prix in order to minimise the chance of suffering second-impact syndrome . Magnussen was announced to take his place.  , After travelling to Malaysia for the second round of the season, Alonso was passed fit to take part in the event after undergoing medical tests at the track.  In the season opener, his Ferrari replacement Sebastian Vettel had finished on the podium, whilst McLaren occupied the last row with huge difficulties with the performance of the car and the new engine package. In spite of this, Alonso stated at the aforementioned press conference that he had no regrets about leaving Ferrari for McLaren, saying that he was no longer content with just podium finishes after 14 years in Formula One and therefore was prepared to take risks in order to win.  In the race, Alonso failed to finish after overheating issues with his car's hybrid system.  Notably, Vettel won the race, prompting Alonso to once again a couple of weeks later publicly defend his decision saying that it was 'difficult to keep the trust' amid Ferrari's attempts to persuade him the 2015 car was going to be a big improvement. He said that he would only suggest the move was a mistake should Ferrari actually win the title in November.  Having been lapped and outside the points in the Chinese Grand Prix , Alonso suggested he was just happy to finish the race to gather information about the car.  , Alonsomanía is the fan phenomenon about Alonso. In 2005 his success fuelled an increase in interest in Formula One in Spain.   On 25 September 2005, a huge party began in Alonso's home town of Oviedo when he became the country's first Formula One World Champion and the youngest in the sport's history at the time. Alonso's fans are recognized by the light blue and yellow Asturias flags  which are coincidentally the same livery used by the Mild Seven Renault team between 2002 and 2006. After his championship win, a widely visited exhibition of Alonso's racing gear was held in Oviedo.  , Alonso's helmet design has the flag of Spain surrounding the helmet and shades of blue which are adapted from Asturias flags . This design is an original design helmet from when Alonso joined Minardi in the 2001 season, with the difference that he wore a blue color with dark blue shades, and then gradually changed to light blue and finally blue typical Asturias in 2004. , Starting the 2006 season, Alonso changed the style of color design on his helmet. It added a background color of yellow as the main color of the helmet together with the bright blue color. The design is then turned upside down again when he moved to McLaren in 2007. This time, Alonso helmet was with the black and red colors, along with customized color schemes for the McLaren team. He also added a silver part in the back of the helmet.  , For 2008, Alonso switched back to one of his previous helmet designs, the yellow-blue coupled with a slight outward surrounding white helmet. Besides the rear helmet, Alonso also attached two pictures of a spade, ace and heart symbol signifying his status as a double world champion.  Alonso's return to the style of an old-fashioned helmet was because he re-joined the team Renault at that time. The design he used in the 2009 season was replacing the blue to a bright red helmet at the top and the bottom. The design was based on Michael Schumacher 's helmet. , For 2010, Alonso returned to the traditional color scheme which is a combination of blue shades of the Asturias and Spanish flag. He also put a Ferrari logo on the back of the helmet, just above the drawing two aces. Alonso's helmet design scheme he used in the 2011 season. Alonso also introduced a special helmet during the 2011 season with a background gold helmet that was used in the 2011 , 2012 and in the 2013 Monaco Grands Prix and in the 2011 Singapore Grand Prix . The golden helmet he designed was to raise money for a charity auction for UNICEF.  , For the 2013 Indian Grand Prix , Alonso used a helmet with a white background to celebrate his points record. The design showed the number 1571, the total points that the Spaniard had scored up to the 2013 Japanese Grand Prix , and the words "F1 points World Record". The message was also accompanied with a thank you message in English, French and Italian.  , * Season in progress. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap) , Alonso holds the following Formula One record : , Outside of Formula One, Alonso is passionately interested in road bicycle racing . Alonso's friends include professional cyclists Alberto Contador , Miguel Indurain and Samuel Sánchez . He cycles himself in order to maintain his fitness for Formula 1.  , Alonso hinted at running a cycling team in the 2011 edition of the Tour de France with Contador leading the team.  In early September 2013, Alonso announced his intentions to rescue the insolvent Euskaltel-Euskadi cycling team, reaching an agreement to buy their UCI World Tour licence in order to form a Spanish professional cycling team using many of its existing riders.  On 23 September, however, it was announced that negotiations over the deal had collapsed. Alonso still plans to create a cycling team for the 2015 season.  In January 2014, Cycling Weekly reported that either Peter Sagan or Contador would sign with Alonso's prospective team – tentatively named the Fernando Alonso Cycling Team (FACT)   – for the 2015 season, and that former world champion Paolo Bettini was leading the creation of the team.  It has also been pointed out that, if the Cannondale team plan to vacate their UCI ProTeam licence, FACT could be fast-tracked to the highest level of professional cycling.  However in November 2014 Alonso confirmed that the team would not compete in 2015 "due to a number of circumstances".   Roberto Merhi Muntan (born 22 March 1991) is a Spanish racing driver of Lebanese-Brazilian origin,  currently driving in Formula One for the Manor Marussia F1 Team as well as the Formula Renault 3.5 Series for Pons Racing . Merhi is also a part of the revitalized Mercedes-Benz Junior Team, together with Christian Vietoris and Robert Wickens . In 2011, Merhi won the Formula 3 Euro Series championship, while driving for Prema Powerteam . , , , Merhi was born in Castellón , Spain to Brazilian parents of Lebanese descent. , In 2007, Merhi mainly competed in Italian Formula Renault and the Formula Renault Eurocup , finishing 4th and 18th respectively. In 2008 he competed in the West European Series , where he was runner-up, and he finished 4th in the Eurocup. He also did five races in the Spanish Formula Three Championship .  , Merhi made the full-time step-up to Formula Three in 2009 when he was signed by Manor Motorsport for their Formula 3 Euro Series campaign, finishing seventh, with four podiums. He moved to Mücke Motorsport for the 2010 season , improving on his debut season by finishing fifth in the standings, with four podiums, including his maiden win at Hockenheim.  2011 saw another change in teams for Merhi, this time joining Prema Powerteam . Merhi subsequently won the championship, getting 20 top-3 finishes, including 11 wins. , On 3 April 2012, Mercedes announced the revival of the Mercedes-Benz Junior Team that has guided several notable drivers in their racing careers like Heinz-Harald Frentzen , Karl Wendlinger and Michael Schumacher . With that announcement came the news that Roberto Merhi, together with the reigning Formula Renault 3.5 Series champion Robert Wickens and DTM-sophomore Christian Vietoris , would become a part of the new Junior Team and that the three of them would drive for the Junior Team in the 2012 DTM season . In addition to that, 7-time F1 World Champion Michael Schumacher will be involved with the three drivers by serving as a mentor. Merhi's entry into the DTM meant that he would be one of two Spaniards in the drivers field, together with Miguel Molina .  , Merhi scored no points in 2012 for Persson Motorsport . In his second season he switched to HWA Team . He collected a 7th place at the Norisring and two 10th finishes. In the final race of the season he recorded his best finish of 2nd to end the season 15th in the standings. , Merhi moved to Formula Renault 3.5 Series in 2014 with Zeta Corse .  He finished third in the championship. , Merhi switched to Pons Racing for the 2015 season . He competed in the first round at Aragon, but was replaced by Alex Fontana so as to focus on his commitments with Manor F1 . , Merhi has appeared for two Formula One teams thus far in his career, Caterham and Manor Marussia. , Merhi made his first appearance in a Formula One car for the Caterham team during practice for the 2014 Italian Grand Prix .  It is believed that he was being evaluated for a race seat in place of Kamui Kobayashi , but had yet to qualify for an FIA Super Licence .  , On 9 March 2015, the Manor Marussia F1 team announced that Merhi would drive in the Australian Grand Prix , alongside Britain's Will Stevens .  However, Manor Marussia did not compete in Australia due to a technical problem. In the Malaysian Grand Prix Merhi competed in his first Formula One race despite problems to his teammate Will Stevens car. Merhi failed to set a lap time within 107 % of the fastest time in Q1, but the race stewards allowed Merhi to start the race. Merhi finished in 15th place, 3 laps down on race winner Sebastian Vettel . In the Chinese Grand Prix , Merhi finished in 16th place behind his teammate Stevens. In Bahrain and Spain Merhi also finished behind Stevens. However, in the Monaco Grand Prix Merhi finished in 16th ahead of Stevens. In the Canadian Grand Prix , Merhi qualified ahead of Stevens and would start in 16th thanks to penalties to Sebastian Vettel and Max Verstappen . As well as that Jenson Button failed to set a lap time in qualifying because of an engine issue. In the race, Merhi was a minute ahead of Stevens but on lap 56, he was forced to retire due to a drive-shaft problem. It was the first time that Merhi failed to finish a Formula One race that he started, but he remained ahead of Stevens in the Drivers' Championship. , * Season in progress. , ( key ) , ( key ) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , * Season in progress. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicates fastest lap) , * Season in progress.  William Stevens , known as Will Stevens , (born 28 June 1991 in Rochford , Essex )  is a British racing driver. He has competed in such series as Eurocup Formula Renault 2.0 , Toyota Racing Series and the British Formula Renault Championship . He has also raced for Caterham F1 in the 2014 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , replacing Marcus Ericsson for the double points race. , On 25 February 2015, Manor F1 announced that they had signed Stevens for the 2015 season.  , , , Stevens started his racing career in 2003 at age of 12 in karts . After one year of racing in the National Cadet championship he joined Rotax Mini Max. After racing in a lot of different championships in Britain and outside, and mostly because of winning the Asia-Pacific Championship in 2007, he joined Formula Renault 2.0 , He ended 7th in the 2009 Formula Renault 2.0 UK and 4th in 2010. In 2011 he switched to the Formula Renault 2.0 Eurocup , where he resulted 4th. , Stevens jumped to the Formula Renault 3.5 Series in 2012, resulting 12th in his first year. In 2013 he scored five podiums in 17 races and ended fourth in the season standings. The driver got two wins and four podiums in 2014 to finish sixth in points. , In October 2014 Marussia F1 announced that Stevens had joined the team as a reserve driver for the remainder of the 2014 season. They had originally planned to run him in first practice session of the 2014 Japanese Grand Prix ; however they were unable to return the relevant paperwork to the FIA Contract Recognition Board in time.  , The following month he made his Formula One debut with Caterham F1 at the 2014 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , having previously tested for the team.  He finished the race in 17th place, one lap down.  He paid £500,000 for the privilege  , In February 2015, Manor F1 , the successor of Marussia, announced Stevens as one of their drivers, along with Roberto Merhi .  Manor Marussia did not compete in the Australian Grand Prix due to a technical issue. In the Malaysian Grand Prix Stevens drove the Manor Marussia car for the first time in Practice 1. However, he did not compete in qualifying or the race because of a problem with the fuel system. In the Chinese Grand Prix Stevens finished his first race for Manor Marussia in 15th place ahead of his teammate Merhi after being lapped twice by race winner Lewis Hamilton . Stevens finished ahead of Merhi in Bahrain and Spain . He finished behind Merhi in the Monaco Grand Prix in 16th. In the Canadian Grand Prix he qualified behind Merhi but moved up to 17th due to penalties to Jenson Button , Sebastian Vettel and Max Verstappen . In the race on lap 52, Romain Grosjean of Lotus was lapping Stevens but cut Stevens left rear tyre which caused both drivers to make an emergency pit stop. The mechanics of both Lotus and Manor Marussia had little time to react to their drivers pitting so that meant both Grosjean and Stevens took long pit stops. Stevens complained to his team on the radio about the incident. Grosjean received a 5 second penalty for the collison but Stevens had dropped from being 4 seconds behind Merhi to a minute behind him. However, Merhi was forced to retire on lap 56 after a drive-shaft issue. Stevens eventually finished in 17th place, 4 laps down on race winner Lewis Hamilton. After the race, Grosjean apologized to Stevens for the incident. , * Season in progress. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , * Season in progress.  Kevin Jan Magnussen (born 5 October 1992) is a Danish racing driver. Magnussen is the first child of four time Le Mans class winner and former Formula One driver Jan Magnussen and mother Britt Petersen. He is a member of the McLaren Formula One team's Young Driver Programme and drove for McLaren in the 2014 Formula One World Championship .  In 2015 , Magnussen will be the reserve driver for McLaren - Honda , as he was replaced by Fernando Alonso , alongside Jenson Button . However, Magnussen competed at the 2015 Australian Grand Prix, as Alonso was ruled out on medical advice due to a concussion-based injury.  , , , Born in Roskilde , Zealand , Magnussen began his career in karting . In 2008 he made the step up to Formula Ford in Denmark, winning the championship.  He also raced in six races of the ADAC Formel Masters series.  , In 2009 Magnussen moved up to Formula Renault , finishing runner-up to António Félix da Costa in the Northern European Cup and finishing seventh in the Eurocup , driving for Motopark Academy .  , In 2010 Magnussen competed in the German Formula Three Championship with Motopark Academy and Carlin Motorsport ; winning the opening round of the season at Oschersleben . He finished third in the championship, taking the rookie title in the process. , In 2011 Magnussen moved on to Cooper Tires British Formula 3 with Carlin.  , Magnussen had his first experience of the McLaren MP4-27 Formula One car on track at the Abu Dhabi Young Driver test on 6 November 2012. He set a quickest time of 1:42.651. Previously he had done work in the team's driving simulator.  Magnussen's time was the best of the three-day test impressing McLaren's sporting director Sam Michael. The distance he covered in the course of the test was sufficient to earn his FIA Super Licence .  , On 14 November 2013 it was confirmed that Magnussen would drive for McLaren for the 2014 season, replacing Sergio Pérez .  In line with a new rule introduced in Formula One for the 2014 season – where drivers pick a car number that they will use during their career – Magnussen raced with number 20 as this was the number he had on his DAMS car in 2013 when he won the championship.  , At the Jerez and Bahrain pre-season tests he topped the timesheets, and at the first race in Australia , he qualified in fourth position.  In the race itself, Magnussen avoided crashing at the start – after his car encountered oversteer  through wheelspin – and after passing Lewis Hamilton 's ailing Mercedes in the early stages, Magnussen maintained position to take a third place finish; he finished 2.2 seconds on-the-road behind Red Bull's Daniel Ricciardo in second place.  As a result, Magnussen became only the second Danish driver – after his father Jan , who was sixth at the 1998 Canadian Grand Prix  – to take a points-scoring finish,  and the first debutant, since Hamilton at the 2007 Australian Grand Prix , to take a podium in their first Grand Prix.  After the race, Magnussen described the result as "like a victory".  He was later promoted to second place in the results, after Ricciardo was disqualified due to fuel irregularities,  making him the first rookie to finish second since Jacques Villeneuve at the 1996 Australian Grand Prix .  Magnussen recorded eleven further points-scoring finishes throughout 2014, the majority being ninth or tenth place finishes; although Magnussen recorded seventh place finishes in Austria and Great Britain  – circuits where he had prior experience from junior formulae – and a fifth place finish in Russia . On 11 December 2014, however, it was announced Fernando Alonso would be returning to McLaren to partner Button, leaving Magnussen to be a test and reserve driver for McLaren.  , Magnussen lives in Woking , Surrey , near to the McLaren Technology Centre .  , On 3 March 2015, McLaren announced that Magnussen would replace Fernando Alonso in the Australian Grand Prix . Magnussen will replace Alonso because Alonso's doctors advised him not to race due to a concussion obtained during a testing incident on 22 February.   However, Magnussen failed to start the race after suffering an engine failure on the formation lap. , * Season in progress. , ( key ) , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , † Did not finish, but was classified as he had completed more than 90% of the race distance. , ( key ) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) , * Season in progress.  The Australian Grand Prix is a motor race held annually in Australia . The Grand Prix is the oldest surviving motor racing competition held in Australia having been held 79 times since it was first run at Phillip Island in 1928 . Since 1985 , the race has been a round of the FIA Formula One World Championship and is currently held at the Melbourne Grand Prix Circuit at Albert Park in Melbourne . Prior to its inclusion in the World Championship, it was held at a multitude of venues in every state of Australia. It was a centrepiece of the Tasman Series between 1964 and 1972 and was a round of the Australian Drivers' Championship on many occasions between 1957 and 1983 . It became part of the Formula One World Championship in 1985 and was held at the Adelaide Street Circuit in Adelaide , South Australia , from that year to 1995 , before moving to Melbourne in 1996 . The winner of the race is presented with a circular plate, recently named the Jack Brabham trophy named for the three-time winner in a design based on the steering wheel of one of Brabham's racing cars and a perpetual trophy, the Lex Davison trophy, named for four-time winner and dates back to the 1960s. , The Australian Grand Prix is the first round of the Championship, having been the first race of each year, excluding 2006 and 2010 , since the event moved to Melbourne. During its years in Adelaide, the Australian Grand Prix was the final round of the Championship, replacing the Portuguese Grand Prix in that respect. As the final round of the season, the Grand Prix hosted a handful of memorable races, most notably the 1986 and 1994 races which saw the 1986 and 1994 World Drivers' Championships decided. , Australian driver Lex Davison and German driver Michael Schumacher are the most successful drivers in the 86-year history of the event taking four wins each; while McLaren has been the most successful constructor with twelve victories, its success stretching back into the pre-Formula One history of the race—its first win being in 1970 . Frenchman Alain Prost is the only driver to win the Australian Grand Prix in both non-championship and World Championship formats, having won the race in 1982 , 1986, and again in 1988 . , The current naming rights sponsor of the event is Swiss watchmaker Rolex . The most recent race, the 2015 Australian Grand Prix , was won by Lewis Hamilton driving for the Mercedes team. The Australian Grand Prix is contracted to remain in Melbourne until at least 2020.  , , , While an event called the Australian Grand Prix is believed to have been staged in 1927 near Sydney, it is generally accepted that the Australian Grand Prix began as the 100 Miles Road Race held at the original Phillip Island road circuit in 1928.  The inaugural race was won by Arthur Waite in what was effectively an entry supported by the Austin Motor Company , a modified Austin 7 . For eight years, races, first called the Australian Grand Prix in 1929 , continued on the rectangular dirt road circuit. This was the era of the Australian "special", mechanical concoctions of disparate chassis and engine that were every bit as capable as the Grand Prix machines imported from Europe. For all the ingenuity of the early Australian mechanic-racers, Bugattis dominated the results, taking four consecutive wins from 1929–1932. The last Phillip Island race was in 1935 and the title lapsed for three years. An AGP style event was held on Boxing Day, 1936 at the South Australian town of Victor Harbor for a centennial South Australian Grand Prix  before the Australian Grand Prix title was revived in 1938 for the grand opening of what would become one of the world's most famous race tracks, Mount Panorama just outside of the semi-rural town of Bathurst . Only just completed, with a tar seal for the circuit still a year away, the race was won by Englishman Peter Whitehead racing a new voiturette ERA B-Type that was just too fast for the locally developed machinery.  One more race was held, at the Lobethal Circuit near theSouth Australian town of Lobethal in 1939 , before the country was plunged into World War II . , In the immediate post-war era, racing was sparse with competitors using pre-war cars with supplies cobbled together around the rationing of fuel and tyres. Mount Panorama held the first post-war Grand Prix in 1947 , beginning a rotational system fostered by the newly formed Australian governing body, CAMS .  A mixture of stripped-down production sports cars and Australian "specials" were to take victories as the race travelled amongst temporary converted airfield circuits and street circuits like Point Cook , Leyburn , Nuriootpa and Narrogin before, on the races return to Mount Panorama in 1952 , the way to the future was pointed by Doug Whiteford racing a newly imported Talbot-Lago Formula One car to victory. Grand Prix machinery had already been filtering through in the shape of older Maserati and OSCAs and smaller Coopers but had yet to prove to be superior to the locally developed cars. The end of the Australian "specials" was coming, but the magnificent Maybach -based series of specials driven exuberantly by Stan Jones would give many hope for the next few years. , Lex Davison , who for several years would experiment with sports car engines in smaller Formula 2 chassis, took his first of four victories in a Jaguar engined Formula 2 HWM in 1954 , while the previous year Whiteford won his third and final Grand Prix as for the first time racing cars thundered around the streets surrounding the Albert Park Lake in inner Melbourne . That circuit, which for four brief years gave Australia the strongest taste of the grandeur surrounding European Grand Prix racing, was 40 years later very much modified, used to host the 1996 Australian Grand Prix as the modern Formula One world championship venue. Jack Brabham took his first of three AGP wins in 1955 at the short Port Wakefield Circuit in South Australia . The race is significant in that Brabham was driving a Bristol powered Cooper T40 , the first ever rear-engine car to win the Grand Prix. , The Grand Prix returned to Albert Park in 1956 , Melbourne's Olympic Games year to play host to a group of visiting European teams, led by Stirling Moss and the factory Maserati racing team who brought a fleet of 250F Grand Prix cars and 300S sports racing cars. Moss won the Grand Prix from Maserati team mate Jean Behra . That 1956 race would inspire the next great era of the Grand Prix.  , The growing influence of engineer-drivers Jack Brabham and a couple of years behind him New Zealander Bruce McLaren would transform the race. Brabham, who first won the Grand Prix in 1955 in an obsolete sports-bodied Cooper T40 Bristol he had brought home from his first foray into English racing,  would test new developments for Cooper during the European winter, beginning a flood of Cooper-Climax Grand Prix machinery into Australia and New Zealand before Brabham started building his own cars , as well as the appearance of Lotus chassis as well, finally killing off the Australian "specials". With European Formula One restricted by the 1.5 litre regulations and big powerful 2.5 litre Australian cars were tremendously attractive to the European teams and when BRM Grand Prix team toured Australia during the summer of 1962, the seed grew that became the Tasman Series . , The top European Formula One teams and drivers raced the European winters in Australia and New Zealand from 1963 to 1969 playing host to a golden age for racing in the region for which the Australian Grand Prix (and the New Zealand Grand Prix) became jewels of the summer. The popularity of the Tasman formulae was directly responsible for 1966's "return to power" in Formula One, and having spent years developing with Repco the Brabham cars and eventually the Oldsmobile based Repco V8s in the Tasman series gave Jack Brabham the opportunity to unexpectedly dominate Formula One in his Brabhams with a ready-proven lightweight car that left Ferrari and the British "garagistes" struggling with their heavy, technically fragile or underpowered cars until the appearance of the Lotus-Cosworth late in 1967. , The Formula One stars of the era all visited the Tasman Series, including World Champions Jim Clark , John Surtees , Phil Hill , Jackie Stewart , Graham Hill and Jochen Rindt , while other F1 regulars Timmy Mayer , Pedro Rodriguez , Piers Courage , leading teams from Cooper, Lotus, Lola, BRM, even the four wheel drive Ferguson P99 and finally, Ferrari , racing against the local stars, Brabham, McLaren, Denny Hulme , Chris Amon , Frank Gardner , Frank Matich , Leo Geoghegan and Kevin Bartlett . Brabham won the Grand Prix three times, McLaren twice, Clark twice, the second was his last major victory before his untimely death, winning a highly entertaining battle with Chris Amon at the 1968 Australian Grand Prix at Sandown Raceway . Graham Hill won the 1966 race, with Amon winning the final Tasman formulae race in 1969 leading home Ferrari team mate Derek Bell for a dominant 1–2 at Lakeside Raceway . , By the end of the decade, European teams were increasingly reluctant to commit to the Tasman Series in the face of longer home seasons, but also having to develop 2.5 litre versions of their 3.0 litre F1 engines. Local Tasman cars were declining as well and after originally opting a 2.0 litre version of Tasman to be the future of the Australia Grand Prix, the overwhelming support for the already well established Formula 5000 saw natural selection force CAMS ' hand.  , For the first half of the 1970s, the Tasman Series continued purely as a local series for Formula 5000 racers, but by 1976, the Australian and New Zealand legs fractured apart and the Australian Grand Prix separated from the remnants and became a stand-alone race once more. During this era, the former Tasman stars, Matich, Geoghegan and Bartlett would continue on as a new generation of drivers emerged, some like Garrie Cooper ( Elfin ) and Graham McRae developing their own cars while others like Max Stewart , John McCormack and Alfredo Costanzo using European-built cars, mostly Lolas . Matich won two Grands Prix is his own cars before Stewart and McRae each took a pair of wins. Towards the end of the 1970s, the race again became a home to returning European-based antipodeans like Alan Jones and Larry Perkins with Warwick Brown winning the 1977 race, while in 1976 , touring car racer John Goss completed a remarkable double becoming the only driver to win the Grand Prix and the Bathurst 1000 touring car race . , Declining economy and the dominance of the local scene by Group C touring cars towards the latter part of the 1970s saw Formula 5000 gradually fall out of favour. By 1980, the decision to replace was once again imminent; however, the form of Alan Jones in Formula One saw entrepreneur Bob Jane seize an opportunity to bring Formula One back as the Grand Prix Formula. The 1980 extravaganza held at Jane's Calder Park Raceway saw a combined field of Formula One and Formula 5000 padded out with the Australised version of Formula Atlantic cars, Formula Pacific.  The newly crowned world champion, Jones swept the field aside in his Williams - Ford , but with only two F1 cars entering (the other being the Alfa Romeo 179 driven by Bruno Giacomelli ). , The continuing disintegration of F5000 saw Jane concentrate the next four Grands Prix on the Formula Pacific (later rebadged as Formula Mondial  ) category and importing Formula One drivers to race the locals in fields almost entirely made up of Ralt RT4s. Brazilian Roberto Moreno dominated this era, winning three of the four races, ceding only the 1982 race to future four-time World Champion Alain Prost . , Jane's attempt to bring the World Championship to Calder Park ultimately failed, as did a bid by Melbourne's other circuit Sandown (though Sandown was able to attract a round of the World Sportscar Championship to its upgraded track in 1984 ). As it turned out, F1 would be tempted away from Melbourne by a far more attractive option.  , The Australian Grand Prix became a round of the FIA Formula One World Championship in 1985 with the last race of the season held on the street circuit in Adelaide . The Adelaide Street Circuit , which held its last Formula One race in 1995 , was known as a challenging, demanding and tricky circuit that often produced races of attrition, and the whole event was very popular with drivers, teams and fans. Whenever the teams came to Adelaide they enjoyed the party atmosphere.  , The first ever Australian Grand Prix to be included as part of the Formula One World Championship was also the 50th AGP. The new 3.78 km Adelaide Street Circuit saw Brazilian Ayrton Senna on pole with a time of 1:19.843 in his Lotus – Renault . The race itself was a battle between Senna and Finland's Keke Rosberg driving a Williams – Honda for the last time. Run in oppressively hot conditions, the last race of the 1985 season ran to its 2 hour time limit, though all scheduled 82 laps were run. Rosberg ultimately prevailed finishing 43 seconds in front of the Ligier – Renaults of Frenchmen Jacques Laffite and Philippe Streiff who actually collided at the hairpin at the end of Brabham Straight with only one lap to go when Streiff tried a passing move that resulted in his car suffering broken suspension, though not bad enough to cause retirement. Three time World Champion Austrian Niki Lauda drove his last Formula One race at this event. After starting 16th in his McLaren , he made his way to the lead by lap 57, but a lack of brakes cause him to crash into a wall in a sad end to his Formula One career. Australia had its own driver in the race with 1980 World Champion Alan Jones driving a Lola – Hart . Jones, who started 19th, stalled at the start but fought his way to sixth by lap 20 before retiring later in the lap with electrical failure. The 1986 event was a three-horse race for the driver's championship. Briton Nigel Mansell and Brazilian Nelson Piquet in Williams – Hondas and Frenchman Alain Prost , in a comparatively underpowered McLaren – TAG/Porsche , were competing for the drivers' title. Mansell needed only third to guarantee the title, whilst Prost and Piquet needed to win and for Mansell to finish fourth or lower to take the title. Finn Keke Rosberg led for 62 laps before a puncture that caused damage to his McLaren; this was the 1982 champion's last Formula One race. Whilst comfortably in the top three with 20 laps to go, Mansell's Williams suffered a spectacular mechanical failure, with a rear tyre puncture at 180 mph (290 km/h) on the Brabham Straight, creating a huge shower of sparks as the floor of the vehicle dragged along the bitumen surface. Mansell fought to control the violently veering car and steered it to a safe stop. Prost took the lead, as Mansell's teammate Piquet had pitted as a pre-cautionary measure, and the Frenchman won the race and the championship. Prost had to fight back after a mid-race puncture, and stopped soon after the finish so as not to waste fuel, something he had done at every race he finished since his disqualification from the 1985 San Marino Grand Prix for being underweight after his McLaren ran out of fuel on his slow down lap after crossing the line first. 1987 saw Gerhard Berger win in his Ferrari while Ayrton Senna finished second but was then disqualified for technical irregularities in his last race for Lotus; Berger's teammate Michele Alboreto was then moved up to second place to make the final result a Ferrari 1–2. , 1988 , the last ever Grand Prix of the turbo era, saw Alain Prost win his seventh race of the season from McLaren team mate and newly crowned World Champion Ayrton Senna with outgoing champion Nelson Piquet third for Lotus, giving Honda turbo's all three podium positions. The race was also the 15th win and 15th pole in 16 races in a season of total dominance for McLaren-Honda, a domination not seen before or since in Formula One. 1989 was hit by a deluge of rain and the drivers, notably Prost, who did not want to start the race because of the very wet conditions, particularly on the Brabham straight. This event came after controversial events 2 weeks before at the Japanese Grand Prix at Suzuka, where Prost crashed into his hated teammate Senna, and Senna got going again and finished 1st on the road but after a lot of political ramifications, he was disqualified for cutting the chicane before the pit straight at Suzuka; the repercussions of which dawned on the race. McLaren decided to appeal Senna's disqualification; so Senna still had a chance of winning the championship. The race was delayed for sometime and there were discussions about whether the race should be started. Senna qualified on pole position, and had every intention of starting the race. The circuit was still being hammered by rain and was covered by water, but the drivers, including Prost relented and they started. But an unconvinced Prost came in after one lap and withdrew; and Senna- who was in an awful mental state, immediately began driving as fast as he could. By the end of the first lap, due to Pierluigi Martini's slow Minardi holding up the two faster Williams cars of Belgian Thierry Boutsen and Italian Riccardo Patrese , Senna was an astonishing nine seconds ahead of Martini; the Williams cars soon passed Martini but by the end of the third lap, Senna was 23 seconds ahead of second-placed Boutsen. But even with such a huge lead which extended even further, Senna continued to push very hard- taking very daring chances even for himself; the psychological dominance F1 had exuded over the Brazilian meant that he was known to take chances that most other drivers would not. But going down the Brabham straight on lap 13, Senna came up behind Briton Martin Brundle's Brabham-Judd, and Brundle decided to move over to let Senna pass. But Senna was blinded by thick spray; and the Brazilian did not let up and then he hit the back of Brundle's car and it tore off his front left wheel and suspension, so the Brazilian had to retire; effectively handing Prost his third driver's championship; McLaren's appeal had not been decided yet; and it was not only overturned but Senna received a $100,000 fine and a six-month ban, both of which were rescinded. Boutsen won the race in the unimproved conditions, the race was called after it reached the two-hour time limit. , 1990 was the 500th World Championship Grand Prix ever held; and it came after yet more controversial events at Suzuka. Senna had crashed into Prost at the very first corner on the first lap of the race; and he won the driver's championship for the second time. The Australian Grand Prix that year was an incredibly exciting race: Senna led for 61 laps, but crashed near the entrance to the permanent race course because of gearbox problems. The race then turned into a dead-heat sprint between Nelson Piquet in his Benetton - Ford and Nigel Mansell in his Ferrari. Mansell charged through the field and repeatedly broke the lap record in pursuit of his former Williams team mate. This almost ended in disaster when the Ferrari almost hit the Benetton at the end of the Brabham Straight in a last-ditch overtaking move on the last lap. Piquet won from the Ferrari's of Mansell and Prost. There was pre-race controversy when Prost refused to take part in both the annual end of season drivers' photo and the special photo shoot with the World Champions in attendance (including legendary five time champion Juan Manuel Fangio , three time champions Sir Jack Brabham , Jackie Stewart , Niki Lauda, and Nelson Piquet; and other world champions James Hunt , Alan Jones, Denny Hulme and Senna), as Prost was still disgusted and angry did not wish to appear in the photos with Senna following their controversial first corner crash in the previous race in Japan which gave the 1990 World Championship to Senna. The 1991 race was notable for being held in extremely wet and tricky conditions and the race was eventually stopped after 14 of the scheduled 82 laps and Ayrton Senna was declared the winner. Prost had been fired from Ferrari for making unsavory comments about the car after Suzuka; he did not compete in this race. The driver's championship had already been decided in Senna's favor; but the constructor's championship was still yet to be decided between McLaren and Williams. Senna's victory plus his teammate Gerhard Berger's third gave McLaren its fourth consecutive constructor's championship; Williams (which was behind McLaren in points) drivers Mansell finished second (but crashed near the race's end at the chicane after the pits) and Riccardo Patrese finished fifth. This race has the record of being the shortest ever Formula One race as it only lasted 52 kilometres (33 miles)/24 minutes. Triple World Champion Nelson Piquet, who finished fifth, retired from Grand Prix racing following the race. 1992 saw Senna drive very hard to try to stay with new world champion Mansell's dominant Williams; this ended in Senna running into the back of Mansell at the last corner. Mansell retired from Formula One and went to compete in CART in the United States; Senna's teammate Gerhard Berger won the race. 1993 saw Senna win what was to be his 41st and final victory and final race for McLaren ahead of Alain Prost, who was competing in his final Formula One race in a Williams before he too retired. Senna embraced his once extremely bitter rival Prost on the podium. It was announced around this time that the Australian Grand Prix would be moving to Melbourne for 1996. , The 1994 was to see yet another memorable weekend. Following his win at the Japanese Grand Prix , Damon Hill was now one point behind championship leader Michael Schumacher . Nigel Mansell , returning to Formula One in place of the late Senna, was on pole but a poor start resulted in the two championship rivals Hill and Schumacher battling for the lead. But on lap 36, Schumacher went off the track, a result of oversteer, and this allowed Hill to catch up with Schumacher and take the inside line for the next corner. Schumacher turned in on Hill's Williams (whether on purpose or accidentally remains unknown) which sent the Benetton up on two wheels and into the tyre barrier, Schumacher retiring on the spot. Hill came out of the incident with a broken wishbone on his front-left suspension, he pitted and retired from the race, handing the title to Schumacher. The sister Williams of the 41-year-old Nigel Mansell went on to win the race, becoming the oldest Grand Prix winner since Jack Brabham in 1970. In 1995 , Mika Häkkinen suffered a tyre failure at the early part of the first qualifying session at the high speed Brewery Bend between Jones and Brabham Straights, which resulted in him crashing heavily into the outside wall. He was critically injured in the crash and was saved only due to an emergency cricothyroidotomy that was performed by the side of the track by Sid Watkins .  This incident forged a strong bond between Häkkinen and team principal Ron Dennis , and also sent forth a new movement for extra safety in the sport. Luckily, Häkkinen recovered fully and was fit to race again in 1996, thus missing only one race. Häkkinen climbed back into a Formula One car at Paul Ricard three months after the accident.  The final F1 race at Adelaide was won by Damon Hill in a Williams, almost all of his main rivals including Schumacher retired, and Hill finished two laps ahead of second-placed Olivier Panis. , In 1993 prominent Melbourne businessman Ron Walker began working with the Kennett government to make Melbourne the host of the event. After the government of Jeff Kennett spent an undisclosed amount,  it was announced in late 1993 (days after the South Australian election ) that the race would be shifted to a rebuilt Albert Park street circuit in Melbourne . The race moved to Melbourne in 1996. The decision to hold the race there was controversial. A series of protests were organised by the "Save Albert Park" group, which claimed that the race turned a public park into a private playground for one week per year. Additionally, they claimed that the race cost a great deal of money that would be better spent, if it were to be spent on motor racing, on a permanent circuit elsewhere. Finally, they said that the claimed economic benefits of the race were false or exaggerated. The race organisers and the government claimed that the economic benefits to the state, although unquantifiable, outweighed the costs, and highlighted that the park's public amenities have been greatly improved from the World War II vintage facilities previously located at Albert Park; the Melbourne Sports and Aquatic Centre (scene of many Melbourne 2006 Commonwealth Games events) being the centre piece and best known of the revitalised facilities. Opponents of holding the race in the park point out that the Aquatic Centre adds nothing to the Grand Prix, is effectively closed for weeks surrounding the event and could have been built independent of the car race. , Bernie Ecclestone , the president of Formula One Management , the group that runs modern-day Formula One in conjunction with the Federation Internationale de l'Automobile ( FIA ), once famously said that it took 10 minutes to do the deal with Melbourne that would see the Victorian capital host the Australian Grand Prix from 1996. It is thought that Melbourne's unsuccessful quest to stage the 1996 Olympic Games, and the subsequently successful bid by northern rival city Sydney to host the 2000 Olympics , was a driving force behind Melbourne's motivation to wrest the Australian Grand Prix away from Adelaide. The Australian Grand Prix at Adelaide from 1985–1995 was always the last event in the Formula One calendar- but from 1996 onwards, it was usually the first event or early in the season. , Albert Park, within easy reach of the Melbourne central business district, became home to the Australian Grand Prix in Melbourne. A 16-turn circuit, which measures 5.3 kilometres in its current guise, was built utilising a combination of public roads and a car park within the park. The circuit is renowned as being a smooth and high-speed test for Formula One teams and drivers. Its characteristics are similar to the only other street circuit set in a public park used in the Formula One World Championship, the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve in Montreal which hosts the Canadian Grand Prix . The promotional theme for the first race in Melbourne was "Melbourne – What a Great Place for the Race". Some 401,000 people turned out for the first race in 1996, which remains a record for the event. The logistics of creating a temporary circuit and hosting an event of the magnitude of a Formula One Grand Prix from scratch weren't lost on the international visitors, with Melbourne winning the F1 Constructors' Association Award for the best organised Grand Prix of the year in its first two years of 1996 and 1997. , It took just three corners for the Australian Grand Prix at Albert Park to gain worldwide attention. On the first lap of the first race in 1996, Jordan's Martin Brundle was launched into the air in an enormous accident. Footage of the crash, and Brundle's subsequent rush back to the pits to take the spare car for the restart, ensured the first race in Melbourne gained widespread coverage. The race was won by Williams's Damon Hill . , The 1997 race saw McLaren , through David Coulthard , break a drought of 50 races without a victory. The next year was a McLaren benefit, with Mika Häkkinen and Coulthard lapping the entire field en route to a dominant 1–2 finish. The result was clouded by controversy when Coulthard pulled over with two laps remaining to allow Häkkinen to win, honouring a pre-race agreement between the pair that whoever made it to the first corner in the lead on lap one would be allowed to win. Ferrari won its first Grand Prix in Melbourne in 1999, but it was not with team number one Michael Schumacher . Northern Irishman Eddie Irvine took his maiden victory after the all-conquering McLarens of Häkkinen and Coulthard retired before half-distance. Schumacher broke his Melbourne drought the following year when he headed a dominant Ferrari 1–2 with new teammate Rubens Barrichello . The 2001 event, won by Michael Schumacher, was marked by tragedy when 52-year-old volunteer marshal Graham Beveridge was killed after a high-speed accident involving Ralf Schumacher and Jacques Villeneuve on lap five. Villeneuve's B.A.R rode up across the back of Schumacher's Williams and crashed into the fence, behind which Beveridge was standing; Beveridge was hit by a tyre that flew off of Villeneuve's car. , The start of the 2002 race saw pole-sitter Barrichello and Williams's Ralf Schumacher come together at Turn One in a spectacular accident that saw 11 of the 22 cars eliminated before the end of the opening lap. Michael Schumacher dominated thereafter to post a third straight Melbourne win, but his achievements were overshadowed by the fifth place of Australian Mark Webber on his Formula One debut. Webber, in an underpowered and underfunded Minardi , had to recover from a botched late pit stop and resist the challenges of Toyota's Mika Salo in the closing stages, and took to the podium after the race with Australian team owner Paul Stoddart in one of Melbourne's more memorable grand prix moments. The next year, 2003, saw Coulthard again win for McLaren in a race held in variable conditions. Normal service was resumed in 2004 with the Ferraris of Schumacher and Barrichello running rampant – within two laps of Friday practice, Schumacher had obliterated the Albert Park lap record, and sailed to a crushing win. In 2005, the race was won by Renault 's Giancarlo Fisichella after a storm during Saturday qualifying produced a topsy-turvy grid. Barrichello and Fisichella's teammate Fernando Alonso came through the field from 11th and 13th on the grid respectively to join pole-sitter Fisichella on the podium. In 2006, Alonso took his first Australian win in an accident-marred race that featured four safety car periods. In 2007 Kimi Räikkönen in his first race for Ferrari, while Lewis Hamilton became first driver in 11 years to finish on the podium in debut, as he was third behind his team-mate Alonso. Hamilton won the 2008 race which had three safety car periods. In 2009 Jenson Button took the victory, driving for Brawn GP , which was having first race after Ross Brawn had bought the team following Honda 's withdrawal from Formula One. The team was formed from the remnants of Honda Racing F1 who had withdrawn from the sport following the 2008 season. The race ended with Button, who had led from the start, leading the field over the line after the safety car had been deployed with three laps remaining following a crash between Sebastian Vettel and Robert Kubica , who had been fighting for second place. Toyota's Jarno Trulli was given a 25-second penalty for passing Lewis Hamilton for third place under yellow flags during that safety car period, which promoted Hamilton into that position. However, Hamilton was later disqualified and docked his points for "deliberately misleading stewards",  with Trulli reinstated in third. The results earned by Brawn , Williams , and Toyota were awarded, despite an appeal being held two weeks later against a ruling on the legality of the teams' diffuser design.  The outcome of the appeal was in favour of the teams and that their diffusers were legal under the new rules and there were no changes to the results of the race.2010 again saw Jenson Button win at Melbourne. Starting from fourth, he gambled on an early change to slick tires under drying conditions that let him move up to second place after losing several positions at the start. Sebastian Vettel retired with mechanical issues after qualifying on pole and leading until his retirement, handing Button the victory. , The move of the Australian Grand Prix to Melbourne saw a change in the time of year that the F1 teams and personnel made their annual voyage Down Under. Adelaide, for each of its 11 years, was the final race of the F1 season, usually in October or November, while Melbourne has been the first race of the season in every year since 1996 with the exception of 2006—when it was the third race of the year to allow for the Commonwealth Games to take place in the city—and 2010. As such, the Albert Park circuit has seen the Formula One debuts of many drivers. 1997 World Champion Jacques Villeneuve made his race debut in Melbourne's first year of 1996, and became one of three men to secure pole position in his maiden Grand Prix. Other prominent names to debut in Melbourne are two-time World Champion Fernando Alonso and one-time champions Kimi Räikkönen (both in 2001) and Lewis Hamilton (2007); former Australian F1 driver, Mark Webber , also made his debut there in 2002. , As part of celebrations for the tenth running of the event at Albert Park in 2005, Webber drove his Williams F1 car over the Sydney Harbour Bridge in a promotional event, and the Melbourne city streets hosted a parade of F1 machinery and V8 Supercars, Australia's highest-profile domestic motor sport category. , Following the move of the Australian Grand Prix to Melbourne, spectator attendance peaked at 401,000 in 1996, but have never reached that of the last Adelaide race in 1995. , In 2009, the global financial crisis , higher unemployment and a snap public transport strike  were cited by Victorian Premier John Brumby as a reason for a slight drop in crowds.  Attendance numbers improved in 2010 to an estimate of 305,000 – the largest since the 2005 race. , Attendance numbers have been as follows: , Wins which did not count towards the Formula One World Championship are indicated by a pink background. , As of November 2011 four times World Drivers' Champion Alain Prost from France remains the only driver to win the AGP in both World Championship and domestic formats winning the Australian Drivers' Championship 1982 race before winning in Adelaide in 1986 and 1988 . , Events which were not part of the Formula One World Championship are indicated by a pink background. , Coordinates : 37°50′49″S 144°58′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 37.847°S 144.974°E ﻿ / -37.847; 144.974  First included in the Formula One World Championship in 1999, the current Malaysian Grand Prix is held at the Sepang International Circuit at Sepang , Malaysia . FIA -sanctioned racing in Malaysia has existed since the 1960s. Since 2011, the race has been officially known as the Malaysia Grand Prix.  , , , The 1962-1965 seasons of the original Formula Two Grand Prix held on the Thomson Road circuit in Singapore is regarded as an earlier precedence of the Malaysian Grand Prix, when Singapore was originally part of the Malaysian federation from 1963 to 1965. After Singapore seceded from the federation in 1965, the Grand Prix continued until 1973. , Between Singapore's departure from the Malaysian federation and the opening of Sepang Circuit, Malaysia hosted a range of other racing tournaments at Shah Alam 's own circuit between 1968 to 1995, including the Tasman Series (1968–1972),  Formula Pacific (1973–1974, 1978–1982), Formula Atlantic (1975), Formula Two (1977) and Formula Holden (1995). , As part of a series of major infrastructure projects in the 1990s under Mahathir Mohamad 's government, the Sepang International Circuit was constructed between 1997 and 1999 close to Putrajaya , the then-newly founded administrative capital of the country, with the intent of hosting the Malaysian Grand Prix. Similar to other of the country's circuits, the circuit is known for its unpredictable humid tropical weather, varying from clear furnace hot days to tropical rain storms. , The inaugural Grand Prix at Sepang was held in 1999 , and saw Michael Schumacher return to the sport after his absence due to a broken leg sustained at that year's British Grand Prix .  Ferrari dominated the race, with Schumacher handing the victory to title-hopeful team-mate Eddie Irvine , only for both Ferraris to be disqualified due to a technical irregularity, before later being reinstated.  , The 2001 event was hit by a heavy rainstorm in the middle of the race which made conditions very difficult. Conditions were so bad that the two Ferraris of Michael Schumacher and Rubens Barrichello spun off almost simultaneously at the same corner. Remarkably, they both recovered to score a Ferrari "1-2", because for a long time they were nearly 5 seconds faster than anyone else on the field. Elsewhere, the race was even led by Jos Verstappen , surprisingly. However, as the track begun to dry, he fell back to 7th, but his efforts to keep positions were memorable.  , Since 2001, the Malaysian Grand Prix has moved from the end of the season to the beginning, which has seen some topsy-turvy results as teams and drivers get to grips with their new equipment, with many races heavily influenced by the winners and losers of the scramble for position into the tight double hairpin bend at the first corner.  , On 8 April 2007, shortly before the 2007 Malaysian Grand Prix , Formula One president Bernie Ecclestone was quoted as stating that the circuit was getting "shabby" and "a bit tired" from the lack of care, describing it as "an old house that needs a bit of redecorating". He noted that the circuit itself is not the issue, but rather the surrounding environ; rubbish is said to be littered all over the place, potentially damaging the circuit's good reputation when it was opened in 1999.  , The day before, Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi had met Ecclestone to discuss an extension of the Formula One contract beyond 2010.  While the government had been given an additional extension to host the Grand Prix until 2015, the government was still mulling the offer, as of 23 April 2007.  The circuit was given a renewed contract in 2006 to organise the Malaysian Grand Prix for another five years.  , On 13 February 2008, the management of the Sepang International Circuit announced its aim to become Formula One's second night race from 2009 after Singapore , following discussions about buying a floodlighting system. Its plans seem to be moving forward when Mokhzani Mahathir , the chairman of the circuit, revealed that they were in the process of securing a lighting system. He was quoted as saying, "They might be custom made for the circuit."  However, since then, the organizers have confirmed that they will not be making the race a night race, but will be adopting a late-afternoon start time.  The 2009 Malaysian Grand Prix indeed did adopt a late afternoon start time. However this proved disastrous due to heavy rainfall and the race not being able to be restarted due to the low light level making it through the clouds, the race ended on Lap 33, and with the rules requiring 42 laps for full points, so both driver and constructor results were halved in relation to points.  , A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship. The 1962 race was titled "Malayan Grand Prix" , Formula BMW Asia and Porsche Carrera Cup Asia have supported the Malaysian Grand Prix since 2003. , Coordinates : 2°45′36″N 101°44′13″E ﻿ / ﻿ 2.760°N 101.737°E ﻿ / 2.760; 101.737  The Chinese Grand Prix ( Simplified Chinese : 中国大奖赛; Pinyin : Zhōngguó Dàjiǎngsài ) is a round of the Formula One World Championship . It is currently held at the Shanghai International Circuit , Jiading , Shanghai , designed by Hermann Tilke . When completed in 2004, it was the most expensive Formula One circuit facility, costing $ 240 million.   The track is 5.451 km long  and features one of the trickiest corners combinations on the Formula One calendar, comparable to that of Istanbul Park 's turn 8, also designed by Tilke. Turn 1 and 2 are a very demanding 270 degree, right-handed corner combination that requires a lot of speed whilst entering and it tightens up towards the end. , , , The vision of a Chinese Grand Prix started in the early 1990s. The Chinese government had originally planned for an F1 circuit to be located in the city of Zhuhai in Guangdong Province, southern China . The Zhuhai International Circuit was designed and built and was provisionally added to the 1999 F1 World Championship calendar, but the track failed to meet certain standards set by the FIA .  However, the Chinese government did not give up and eventually, with assistance from the organizers of the Macau Grand Prix , held the first ever Formula One race in China in 2004.  , In 2002, it was announced that the management of the Shanghai International Circuit had signed a 7-year contract with Formula One Management to host the Chinese Grand Prix starting from the 2004 season until the 2011 season. The Chinese Grand Prix debuted on September 26, 2004, and was won by Ferrari 's Rubens Barrichello . The following year, it hosted the final round of the Formula One championship, in which the newly crowned world champion Fernando Alonso won and claimed the constructor's title for Renault . In 2006, the Chinese Grand Prix was won by Michael Schumacher - his last victory in Formula One. , In November 2008 the BBC reported a senior race official, Qiu Weichang, as suggesting that the loss-making race might be cancelled. Following a similar announcement about the French Grand Prix , Qui Weichang said that the race's future was under consideration, and a decision would be made in 2009.  , 2010 came and went with no formal announcement of an extension to the initial 7 race deal struck in 2004. However, immediately after the 2010 Shanghai race Bernie Ecclestone , who manages the contracts with the various circuits, said of the 2011 calendar, "We are not dropping anything. [It's] 20 races - getting ready for 25".  , It was only in February 2011 that a deal was agreed between F1 and the organisers of the Chinese round of the world championship. Reasons for the delay appear to have been over the fee paid to F1 to host the race. After racking up losses year after year, the organisers of the race refused to pay the fee required, reported to be amongst the highest paid to host an F1 race. F1 bosses appear to have reduced the fee and the new agreement to host an F1 race runs to 2017.  , Embolded drivers are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season. , Embolded teams are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season. , All Chinese Grand Prix have been held at Shanghai . , Formula BMW Asia and Porsche Carrera Cup Asia have both supported the Chinese Grand Prix since 2004. In 2008 , the GP2 Asia Series also raced the same weekend. In 2015 , the TCR International Series also supported the Chinese Grand Prix. , Coordinates : 31°20′20″N 121°13′19″E ﻿ / ﻿ 31.339°N 121.222°E ﻿ / 31.339; 121.222  The Bahrain Grand Prix ( Arabic : جائزة البحرين الكبرى ‎) is a Formula One Championship race in Bahrain sponsored by Gulf Air . The first race took place at the Bahrain International Circuit on 4 April 2004. It made history as the first Formula One Grand Prix to be held in the Middle East , and was given the award for the "Best Organised Grand Prix" by the FIA .  , The Bahrain Grand Prix has usually been the third race of the Formula One calendar. However, in the 2006 season , Bahrain swapped places with the traditional opener, the Australian Grand Prix , which was pushed back to avoid a clash with the Commonwealth Games . In 2010, Bahrain staged the opening race of the 2010 season and the cars drove the full 6.299 km (3.914 mi) "Endurance Circuit" to celebrate F1's 'diamond jubilee'. , The 2011 Grand Prix, due to be held on 13 March, was canceled on 21 February due to the 2011 Bahraini protests  after drivers including Damon Hill and Mark Webber had protested.  , Human rights activists called for a cancellation of 2012 race due to reports of alleged human rights abuses committed by the Bahraini authorities.  Team personnel also voiced concerns about safety,  but the race, nonetheless, was held as planned on 22 April 2012. , The 2014 race was held as a night race under floodlights. It became the second Formula One night race after the Singapore Grand Prix , to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the first staging of the Grand Prix.  It was won by Lewis Hamilton . , Shortly after the Formula One February 2014 testing, Grand Prix organizers for Bahrain announced a decision to name the first corner of the iconic track after former seven-time champion German driver Michael Schumacher in honor of his achievements and also in support after the driver suffered an almost fatal skiing accident late December 2013.  , , , The building of the Bahrain International Circuit in Sakhir was started in 2002 with high domestic interest about the project as it gave a future to the next generation of Bahraini racers. Bahrain had fought off fierce competition from elsewhere in the region to stage a F1 race, with Egypt , Lebanon and the United Arab Emirates all hoping for the prestige of hosting a Formula One Grand Prix. By the completion of the project, the circuit became the center of motor sport in the Persian Gulf , as it held many other races such as drag races, GT races, Formula 3 races and the Australian V8 Supercar series.  , The first race was in 2004 . The race was won by German driver Michael Schumacher for Ferrari. Fernando Alonso won the second Bahrain Grand Prix for Renault in 2005 , and then became the first repeat winner of the Middle Eastern race in 2006 (again for Renault), after a thrilling race-long battle with Michael Schumacher. In 2007 and 2008 , Brazilian Felipe Massa won the race for Ferrari . 2009 saw Jenson Button win for Brawn GP . After his 2010 triumph, Alonso became the first three-time winner.  , The 2010 race saw a new circuit configuration being used for the Grand Prix. It used the "Endurance Circuit" layout, extending the lap length to 6.299 km (3.914 mi).  The new track turns left shortly after Turn 4, the right-hander at the top of the hill following the first sequence of turns. There is then a sequence of five turns before the cars head back to the original circuit. Then comes a left-right kink before a tight hairpin returns the cars onto the main track.  The track would have reverted to its original layout for the 2011 race,  and did so for the 2012 race.  , On 21 February 2011, it was announced that the 2011 Bahrain Grand Prix scheduled for 13 March was cancelled due to the 2011 Bahraini protests .   On 3 June, FIA decided to reschedule the race for 30 October. World champion racer Damon Hill called on Formula One not to reschedule saying that if the race went ahead “we will forever have the blight of association with repressive methods to achieve order”.  And Bernie Ecclestone told the BBC in an interview: "Hopefully there'll be peace and quiet and we can return in the future, but of course it's not on. The schedule cannot be rescheduled without the agreement of the participants - they're the facts."  A week after its decision to reschedule the race, Formula One announced the cancellation of the race for 2011.  , Human rights activists called for a cancellation of the 2012 Bahrain Grand Prix , which took place on 22 April, because of reports of ongoing use of excessive force by authorities and torture in detention.    On 9 April 2012, The Guardian reported that according to an unnamed leading member of one of the teams who said his views were representative, “the Formula One teams want the sport's governing body to cancel – or at least postpone – the Bahrain Grand Prix ..., because of increasing safety concerns amid ongoing protests in the kingdom ... I feel very uncomfortable about going to Bahrain. If I'm brutally frank, the only way they can pull this race off without incident is to have a complete military lockdown there. And I think that would be unacceptable, both for F1 and for Bahrain. But I don't see any other way they can do it”.  , In that context, Anonymous launched on 21 April 2012 the operation opBahrain, threatening the Formula 1 representatives of a cyberattack in case they go on with Bahrain Grand Prix. Hours later, Anonymous hackers took down the f1-racers.net website after launching a distributed denial-of-service attack on it.  , The 2012 Grand Prix reverted to using the 15-corner Grand Prix Circuit configuration last used in 2009, instead of the Endurance Circuit configuration used in 2010.  , A characteristic of the course is the giant run-off areas, which have been criticised for not punishing drivers who stray off the track. However, they tend to prevent sand getting onto the track and make Bahrain one of the safest tracks in the world.  , Although alcoholic beverages are legal in Bahrain, the drivers do not spray the traditional champagne on the podium. Instead, they spray a non-alcoholic rosewater drink known as Waard.  , Current drivers are indicated in bold. , Current constructors are indicated in bold. , Formula BMW Asia supported the Bahrain Grand Prix in 2004, with Hong Kong driver Marchy Lee winning both rounds. But the series had logistical problems after the race, when the cars were delayed on their way to Malaysia , missing the next event and had to reschedule the rest of the season. Formula BMW Asia has not supported the Bahrain Grand Prix since, but the first ever Formula BMW World Final was held in Bahrain. The Porsche Supercup has supported the 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 races. The GP2 Series supported the race in 2007 and a celebrity race was held in 2006 with the likes of Simon Webbe competing. , Further support for the 2008 event was provided by the GP2 Asia , Speedcar Series and a series using Australian built Chevrolet Luminas . , In addition to GCC citizens and residents and nationals of 37 countries eligible for visa on arrival, Bahrain also allows nationals of Brazil , Chile , Cyprus , Hungary , India , Panama , South Africa , Taiwan and Venezuela with Grand Prix tickets to obtain a visa on arrival during the event.  Citizens of other countries must have a guarantor (Bahraini commercial entity or a Bahraini individual) to obtain a visa.  , Coordinates : 26°01′55″N 50°30′47″E ﻿ / ﻿ 26.032°N 50.513°E ﻿ / 26.032; 50.513  The Spanish Grand Prix ( Spanish : Gran Premio de España , Catalan : Gran Premi d'Espanya ) is a Formula One race currently held at the Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya in Barcelona . The race is one of the oldest in the world still contested, celebrating its centenary in 2013. The race had modest beginnings as a production car race. Interrupted by the First World War , the race waited a decade for its second running before becoming a staple of the European calendar. It was promoted to the European Championship in 1935 before the Spanish Civil War brought an end to racing. The race was successfully revived in 1967 and has been a regular part of the Formula One World Championship since 1968 at a variety of venues. , , , The first Spanish Grand Prix in 1913 was not actually run to the Grand Prix formula of the day, but to touring car rules, taking place on a 300-kilometre road circuit at Guadarrama , near Madrid , on the road to Valladolid . , Motor racing events had taken place in Spain prior to that—the most notable among them being the Catalan Cup of 1908 and 1909, on roads around Sitges , near Barcelona . Both of these events were won by Jules Goux , helping to establish a strong racing tradition in Spain , which has continued to this day. This enthusiasm for racing led to the plan to build a permanent track at Sitges—a 2-kilometre (1.2 mi) oval that became known as Sitges-Terramar , and was the site of the 1923 Spanish Grand Prix. , After this first race, the track fell into financial difficulties, and the organisers had to look for another venue. In 1926, the Spanish Grand Prix moved to the 11-mile Circuito Lasarte on the northern coast, home of the main race in Spain during the 1920s—the San Sebastián Grand Prix . The 1927 Spanish Grand Prix was part of the AIACR World Manufacturers' Championship , but the race was still not established and in 1928 and 1929 was run to sports car regulations. The 1930 Spanish Grand Prix for sports cars, scheduled for July 27, was cancelled due to the bad economic situation following the Wall Street crash in October 1929. The 1931 and 1932 Spanish Grands Prix were also announced, only to be cancelled due to political and economic difficulties. Finally, in 1933 the Spanish Grand Prix was revived at Lasarte with government backing. Following the 1935 race, Spain descended into civil war and racing stopped. In 1946, racing returned to Spain in the form of the Penya Rhin Grand Prix at the Pedralbes street circuit in Barcelona . , Spain did not return to the international calendar until 1951, joining the list of races of the Formula One championship at Pedralbes. Argentine Juan Manuel Fangio won his first world championship at the 1951 event in an Alfa Romeo while he took advantage of the improved works Ferrari's tire problems. The race was scheduled for the 1952 and 1953 seasons but did not take place due to a lack of money,  and in 1954, Briton Mike Hawthorn stopped Mercedes's dominance by winning in a Ferrari. In 1955, the Spanish Grand Prix at Pedralbes was scheduled to take place, but a terrible accident at the 24 Hours of Le Mans that killed more than 80 people resulted in regulations governing spectator safety, and the scheduled Spanish Grand Prix (like many others) was cancelled that year and for the subsequent 2 years (also owing to more problems with money to hold the race), and the pedestrian-lined street track at Pedralbes was then never used again for motor racing. , In the 1960s, Spain made a bid to return to the world of international motor racing—the Royal Automobile Club of Spain commissioned a new permanent racing circuit north of Madrid at Jarama , and the Spanish government refurbished the Montjuïc street circuit in Barcelona with safety upgrades. A non-championship Grand Prix took place at Jarama in 1967, which was won by Jim Clark racing in a Lotus F1 car. , In 1968, Jarama hosted the Spanish Grand Prix, near the beginning of the F1 season. It was agreed, following this event, that the race would alternate between the tight, slow and twisty Jarama and the fast, wide and sweeping Montjuic, and the Montjuic circuit hosted its first Formula One race in 1969, with Briton Jackie Stewart winning. Jarama would get the race in even-numbered years, and Montjuic in odd-numbered years. 1970 was a race that saw Belgian Jacky Ickx and Briton Jackie Oliver get involved in a fiery accident; with Ickx and Oliver escaping with burns. The race was won by Stewart, he won again the next year after holding off 3 more powerful 12-cylinder engined cars. Austrian Niki Lauda won his first of 25 races in 1974. The 1975 event was marked by tragedy. There had been concerns about track safety during practice races, as the Armco barriers surrounding the city streets of the Montjuic circuit had not been fastened down properly. There were a number of protests, and the drivers refused to race. The organizers panicked, and they threatened to lock the cars inside the stadium where they stayed while not being raced. The drivers and teams relented; but double-winner Emerson Fittipaldi retired in protest after a single lap. On the 26th lap of the race, Rolf Stommelen's car crashed when the rear wing broke off, killing four spectators. The race was stopped on the 29th lap and won by Jochen Mass , though only half the points were awarded. , After the tragic events at the dangerously fast and tight space of Montjuic, the Spanish Grand Prix was confined to Jarama. The 1976 race saw Briton James Hunt take advantage of Lauda's broken ribs in a tractor accident; he was then disqualified after his car was found to be 1.8 inches too wide. Hunt's McLaren team appealed the decision, and it was successful; Hunt was re-awarded the 9 points. 1977 and 1978 saw Mario Andretti dominate in his ground-effect Lotus 78. The 1980 race was of note, because before on the Friday morning of race weekend, FISA (the governing body that controlled Formula One at the time) president Jean-Marie Balestre announced that the Spanish Grand Prix would not be counted as a championship race, and none of the factory teams (Ferrari, Renault and Alfa Romeo) showed up to the event. and only the independent constructors belonging to FOCA competed. The race was won by Alan Jones in a Williams. 1981 was a race that Gilles Villeneuve in his ill-handling Ferrari held off 4 better-handling cars to take victory on the twisty and confined circuit; this is considered to be one of the greatest drives in all of motorsports. But the Spanish Grand Prix at Jarama was then also dropped from the racing calendar because the organizers seemed more interested in the golf course near the circuit, and also because of the narrow track, unpleasantly hot conditions and small crowd at that year's race; it would return in 1986. , In 1985, the Mayor of Jerez commissioned a new racing circuit in his town to promote tourism and sherries . The track, the Circuito Permanente de Jerez , located near Seville in southern Spain was finished in time for the 1986 championship , which saw a furious battle between Ayrton Senna and Nigel Mansell , with the two cars finishing side by side. Senna won by 0.014 seconds—one of F1's closest finishes. 1987 saw Mansell win in his Williams; and 1989 saw Senna drive a hard race to keep himself in the championship points; he won the event from Austrian Gerhard Berger in a Ferrari and the Brazilian's hated McLaren teammate, Frenchman Alain Prost . The 1990 event was the last Spanish Grand Prix at Jerez (although Jerez did stage the European Grand Prix in 1994 and 1997). During the practice, Martin Donnelly 's Lotus was destroyed in a high-speed crash, and the Briton was ejected from the car. He was severely injured, but survived; he never raced in Formula One again. Jerez's remote location did not help build large crowds for the race, combined with Donnelly's appalling crash into Armco barriers close to the track did nothing to help Jerez's reputation; although the circuit was popular with the F1 fraternity. Ferrari finished first and second in the race, with Prost finishing ahead of Mansell. , Work on the Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya was underway in Barcelona thanks to the support of the Spanish government, and in 1991, the event moved to this new track, where it has remained since. The 1992 event was advertised as the Grand Prix of the Olympic Games . Since that race the race has been held in early season, usually in late April or early May. , The Williams team dominated the first outings there, taking all victories until 1994. Michael Schumacher has won a total of six times, including his 1996 victory in heavy rain, which was his first for Ferrari. Mika Häkkinen took three victories and was on road for fourth in 2001 before his car failed on the last lap. , Since 2003 the race has been well attended thanks to success of Fernando Alonso . Alonso finished second in 2003 and 2005 before taking victory from pole in 2006. Alonso also finished third in 2007, with two further second places in 2010 and 2012, where he finished behind the Williams of Spanish speaking Pastor Maldonado , who won from pole; this was the first win and pole in a Grand Prix for a Venezuelan driver and Williams' first win since the 2004 Brazilian Grand Prix and the team's first Spanish Grand Prix win and pole since 1997. Two Spanish drivers have won the Spanish Grand Prix; Carlos de Salamanca in 1923 and Alonso in 2006 and 2013, with Spanish speaking Juan Manuel Fangio winning in 1951 as well as Maldonado in 2012. , From 2013 , the Spanish Grand Prix was supposed to alternate every year between Catalunya and the Valencia Street Circuit .  However, this did not happen—Valencia dropped out for financial reasons and Catalunya remained the sole host of the Spanish Grand Prix.  , * Sports car race , Coordinates : 41°34′9.9″N 2°15′26.9″E ﻿ / ﻿ 41.569417°N 2.257472°E ﻿ / 41.569417; 2.257472  The Monaco Grand Prix ( French : Grand Prix de Monaco ) is a Formula One motor race held each year on the Circuit de Monaco . Run since 1929, it is widely considered to be one of the most important and prestigious automobile races in the world and, alongside the Indianapolis 500 and the 24 Hours of Le Mans , it forms the Triple Crown of Motorsport . The circuit has been called "an exceptional location of glamour and prestige."  , The race is held on a narrow course laid out in the streets of Monaco , with many elevation changes and tight corners as well as a tunnel, making it one of the most demanding tracks in Formula One. In spite of the relatively low average speeds, it is a dangerous place to race. It is the only Grand Prix that does not adhere to the FIA 's mandated 305 kilometres (190 mi) minimum race distance. , The first race , held on April 14, 1929 was organised by cigarette magnate Antony Noghès under the auspices of the "Automobile Club de Monaco", and was won by William Grover-Williams driving a Bugatti . The event was part of the pre- Second World War European Championship and was included in the first World Championship of Drivers in 1950 . It was designated the European Grand Prix two times, 1955 and 1963, when this title was an honorary designation given each year to one Grand Prix race in Europe. Graham Hill was known as " Mr. Monaco "  due to his five Monaco wins in the 1960s. Brazil 's Ayrton Senna won the race more times than any other driver, with six victories, winning five races consecutively between 1989 and 1993 . Fernando Alonso is the only driver to have won the race in consecutive years for different constructors winning for Renault in 2006 and McLaren in 2007. , , , Like many European races, the Monaco Grand Prix predates the current World Championship . The principality's first Grand Prix was organised in 1929 by Antony Noghès , under the auspices of Prince Louis II , through the Automobile Club de Monaco (ACM). Alexandre Noghès, Anthony's father, was founding president of the ACM, originally named Sport Vélocipédique Monégasque . The ACM made their first foray into motorsport by holding the Rallye Automobile Monte Carlo in 1911. In 1928 the club applied to the Association Internationale des Automobiles Clubs Reconnus (AIACR), the international governing body of motorsport, to be upgraded from a regional French club to full national status. Their application was refused due to the lack of a major motorsport event held wholly within Monaco's boundaries. The rally could not be considered as it mostly used the roads of other European countries.  , In order to attain full national status, Noghès proposed the creation of an automobile Grand Prix in the streets of Monte Carlo . Noghès obtained the official support of Prince Louis II. Noghès also gained support for his plans from Monegasque Louis Chiron , a top-level driver in European Grand Prix racing. Chiron thought that the topography of the location would be well suited to setting up a race track.  , The first Grand Prix Automobile de Monaco was an invitation-only event, but not all of those invited decided to attend. The leading Maserati and Alfa Romeo drivers decided not to compete, but Bugatti was well represented. Mercedes sent their leading driver Rudolf Caracciola to drive a Mercedes SSK . Caracciola drove a fighting race, bringing his SSK up to second position at the end of the race, despite starting in fifteenth. The race was won by "Williams" (pseudonym of William Grover-Williams ) driving a Bugatti Type 35B painted dark green.  Another driver who competed using a pseudonym was " Georges Philippe ", the Baron Philippe de Rothschild . Chiron was unable to compete, having a prior commitment to compete in the Indianapolis 500 on the same day.  However, Chiron did compete the following year, when he was beaten by René Dreyfus and his Bugatti and finished second, and took victory in the 1931 race driving a Bugatti. As of 2014 [update] , he remains the only native of Monaco to have won the event. , The race quickly grew in importance. Because of the large number of races which were being termed 'Grands Prix', the AIACR formally recognised the most important race of each of its affiliated national automobile clubs as International Grands Prix, or Grandes Épreuves , and in 1933 Monaco was ranked as such alongside the French , Belgian , Italian , and Spanish Grands Prix.  That year's race was the first Grand Prix where grid positions were decided, as they are now, by practice time rather than the established method of balloting . The race saw Achille Varzi and Tazio Nuvolari exchange the lead many times before being settled in Varzi's favour on the final lap when Nuvolari's car caught fire.  The race became a round of the new European Championship in 1936, when stormy weather and a broken oil line led to a series of crashes, eliminating the Mercedes-Benzes of Chiron, Fagioli , and von Brauchitsch , as well as Bernd Rosemeyer 's Typ C for newcomer Auto Union ; Rudolf Caracciola , proving the truth of his nickname , Regenmeister (Rainmaster), went on to win.  In 1937, von Brauchitsch duelled Caracciola before coming out on top.  It was the last prewar Grand Prix at Monaco, for in 1938, the demand for ₤500 (about US$2450) in appearance money per top entrant led AIACR to cancel the event, while looming war overtook it in 1939, and the Second World War ended organised racing in Europe until 1945. , Racing in Europe started again on 9 September 1945 at the Bois de Boulogne Park in the city of Paris , four months and one day after the end of the war in Europe.  In 1946 a new premier racing category, Grand Prix , was defined by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the successor of the AIACR, based on the pre-war voiturette class. A Monaco Grand Prix was run to this formula in 1948 , won by the future world champion Nino Farina in a Maserati 4CLT . , The 1949 event was cancelled due to the death of Prince Louis II; it was included in the new Formula One World Drivers' Championship the following year . The race provided future five-time world champion Juan Manuel Fangio with his first win in a World Championship race, as well as third place for the 51-year-old Louis Chiron, his best result in the World Championship era. However, there was no race in 1951, and in 1952, a year in which the world drivers' championship was run for less powerful Formula Two cars, the race was run to sports car rules instead and did not form part of the World Championship.  , Since 1955 , the Monaco Grand Prix has continuously been part of the Formula One World Championship.  That year, Maurice Trintignant won in Monte Carlo for the first time and Chiron again scored points and at 56 became the oldest driver to compete in a Formula One Grand Prix. It was not until 1957 , when Fangio won again, that the Grand Prix saw a double winner. Between 1954 and 1961 Fangio's former Mercedes colleague, Stirling Moss , went one better, as did Trintignant, who won the race again in 1958 driving a Cooper . The 1961 race saw Moss fend off three works Ferrari 156s in a year-old privateer Rob Walker Racing Team Lotus 18 , to take his third Monaco victory.  , Britain's Graham Hill won the race five times in the 1960s and became known as " King of Monaco "  and " Mr. Monaco ". He first won in 1963, and then won the next two years.  In the 1965 race he took pole position and led from the start, but went up an escape road on lap 25 to avoid hitting a slow backmarker. Re-joining in fifth place, Hill set several new lap records on the way to winning.  The race was also notable for Jim Clark's absence (he was doing the Indianapolis 500), and for Paul Hawkins' Lotus ending up in the harbour.  A similar incident was included in the 1966 film Grand Prix .  Hill's teammate, Briton Jackie Stewart , won in 1966 and New Zealander Denny Hulme won in 1967, but Hill won the next two years, the 1969 event being his final Formula One championship victory, by which time he was a double Formula One world champion. , By the start of the 1970s, efforts by Jackie Stewart saw a few events cancelled because of safety concerns. For the 1969 event, Armco barriers were placed at specific points for the first time in the circuit's history; before that, the circuit's conditions were (aside from the removal of people's production cars parked on the side of the road) virtually identical to everyday civilian use. If a driver went off, he would crash into whatever was next to the track (buildings, trees, lamp posts, glass windows, and even a train station); and in Alberto Ascari and Paul Hawkins' cases, the harbour water, because the concrete road the course used had no Armco to protect the drivers from going off the track and into the Mediterranean. The circuit gained more Armco in specific points for the next 2 races, and by 1972, the circuit was almost completely Armco-lined. And for the first time in its history, the Monaco circuit was altered that year; the pits were moved next to the waterfront straight between the chicane and Tabac and the chicane was moved further forward right before Tabac and was the junction point between the pits and the course. The course was changed again for the 1973 race; the Rainier III Nautical Stadium was constructed where the straight that went behind the pits was and the circuit introduced a twisty section that went around the new swimming pool. This created space for a whole new pit facility; and in 1976 the course was altered yet again; the Sainte Devote corner was made slower and a chicane was placed right before the pit straight. , For the next two races, By the early 1970s, as Brabham team owner Bernie Ecclestone started to marshal the collective bargaining power of the Formula One Constructors Association (FOCA), Monaco was prestigious enough to become an early bone of contention. Historically the number of cars permitted in a race was decided by the race organiser, in this case the ACM, which had always set a low number of around 16. In 1972 Ecclestone was starting to negotiate deals which relied on FOCA guaranteeing at least 18 entrants for every race. A stand-off over this issue left the 1972 race in jeopardy until the ACM gave in and agreed that 26 cars could participate – the same number permitted at most other circuits. Two years later, in 1974, the ACM managed to get the numbers back down to 18.  , Because of its tight confines, slow average speeds and punishing nature, Monaco has often thrown up unexpected results. In the 1982 race René Arnoux led the first 15 laps, before retiring. Alain Prost then led until four laps from the end, when he spun off on the wet track, hit the barriers and lost a wheel, giving Riccardo Patrese the lead. Patrese himself spun with only a lap and a half to go, letting Didier Pironi through to the front, followed by Andrea de Cesaris . On the last lap, Pironi ran out of fuel in the tunnel, but De Cesaris also ran out of fuel before he could overtake. In the meantime Patrese had bump-started his car and went through to score his first Grand Prix win.  , In 1983 the ACM became entangled in the disagreements between Fédération Internationale du Sport Automobile (FISA) and FOCA. The ACM, with the agreement of Bernie Ecclestone, negotiated an individual television rights deal with ABC in the United States . This broke an agreement enforced by FISA for a single central negotiation of television rights. Jean-Marie Balestre , president of FISA, announced that the Monaco Grand Prix would not form part of the Formula One world championship in 1985. The ACM fought their case in the French courts. They won the case and the race was eventually reinstated.  , For the decade from 1984 to 1993 the race was won by only two drivers, arguably the two best drivers in Formula One at the time- Frenchman Prost and Brazilian Ayrton Senna . Prost, already a winner of the support race for Formula Three cars in 1979, took his first Monaco win at the 1984 race . The race started 45 minutes late after heavy rain. Prost led briefly before Nigel Mansell overtook him on lap 11. Mansell crashed out five laps later, letting Prost back into the lead. On lap 27, Prost led from Ayrton Senna's Toleman and Stefan Bellof 's Tyrrell . Senna was catching Prost and Bellof was catching both of them. However on lap 31, the race was controversially stopped with conditions deemed to be undriveable. Later, FISA fined the clerk of the course, Jacky Ickx , $6,000 and suspended his licence for not consulting the stewards before stopping the race.  The drivers received only half of the points that would usually be awarded, as the race had been stopped before two thirds of the intended race distance had been completed. , Senna holds the record for the most victories in Monaco, with six, including five consecutive wins between 1989 and 1993 , as well as eight podium finishes in ten starts. His 1987 win was the first time a car with an active suspension had won a Grand Prix. His win was very popular with the people of Monaco, and when he was arrested on the Monday following the race, for riding a motorcycle without wearing a helmet, he was released by the officers after they realised who he was.  At the 1992 event Nigel Mansell, who had won all five races held to that point in the season, took pole and dominated the race in his Williams FW14 B- Renault . However, with seven laps remaining, Mansell suffered a loose wheel nut and was forced into the pits, emerging behind Ayrton Senna's McLaren -Honda. Mansell, on fresh tyres, set a lap record almost two seconds quicker than Senna's and closed from 5.2 to 1.9 seconds in only two laps. The pair duelled around Monaco for the final four laps but Mansell could find no way past, finishing just two tenths of a second behind the Brazilian.   It was Senna's fifth win at Monaco, equalling Graham Hill's record. After Senna took his sixth win at the 1993 race , breaking Graham Hill's record for most wins at the Monaco Grand Prix, runner-up Damon Hill commented that "If my father was around now, he would be the first to congratulate Ayrton."  , The 1996 race saw Michael Schumacher take pole position before crashing out on the first lap after being overtaken by Damon Hill. Hill led the first 40 laps before his engine expired in the tunnel. Jean Alesi took the lead but suffered suspension failure 20 laps later. Olivier Panis , who started in 14th place, moved into the lead and stayed there until the end of the race, being pushed all the way by David Coulthard . It was Panis' only win, and the last for his Ligier team. Only three cars crossed the finish line, but seven were classified. , Seven-time world champion Schumacher would eventually win the race five times, matching Graham Hill's record. Schumacher also holds the current lap record with a 1:14.439, set in 2004. In his appearance at the 2006 event , he attracted criticism when, while provisionally holding pole position and with the qualifying session drawing to a close, he stopped his car at the Rascasse hairpin, blocking the track and obliging competitors to slow down.  Although Schumacher claimed it was the unintentional result of a genuine car failure, the FIA disagreed and he was sent to the back of the grid.  , In July 2010, Bernie Ecclestone announced that a 10-year deal had been reached with the race organisers, keeping the race on the calendar until at least 2020.  , The Circuit de Monaco consists of the city streets of Monte Carlo and La Condamine , which includes the famous harbour. It is unique in having been held on the same circuit every time it has been run over such a long period — only the Italian Grand Prix , which has been held at Autodromo Nazionale Monza every year except 1921 and 1980 , has a similarly lengthy and close relationship with a single circuit. , The race circuit has many elevation changes, tight corners, and a narrow course that makes it one of the most demanding tracks in Formula One racing.  As of 2014 [update] , two drivers have crashed and ended up in the harbour, the most famous being Alberto Ascari in 1955 .   Despite the fact that the course has had minor changes several times during its history, it is still considered the ultimate test of driving skills in Formula One , and if it were not already an existing Grand Prix, it would not be permitted to be added to the schedule for safety reasons.  Even in 1929, 'La Vie Automobile' magazine offered the opinion that "Any respectable traffic system would have covered the track with <<Danger>> sign posts left, right and centre".  , Triple Formula One champion Nelson Piquet was fond of saying that racing at Monaco was "like trying to cycle round your living room", but added that "a win here was worth two anywhere else".  , Notably, the course includes a tunnel. The contrast of daylight and gloom when entering/exiting the tunnel presents "challenges not faced elsewhere", as the drivers have to "adjust their vision as they emerge from the tunnel at the fastest point of the track and brake for the chicane in the daylight.".  The fastest-ever lap was set by Kimi Räikkönen in qualifying for the 2006 Grand Prix, at 1m 13.532.  , During the Grand Prix weekend spectators crowd around the Monaco Circuit. There are a number of temporary grandstands built around the circuit, mostly around the harbour area. The rich and famous arrive on their boats and the yachts in the harbour fill with spectators. Balconies around Monaco become viewing areas for the race too. Many hotels and residents cash in on the birds eye views of the race. Grand Prix organizers Automobile Club de Monaco officially voted the Ermanno Palace Penthouse the ‘Best view of the Monaco Grand Prix’.  , The Monaco Grand Prix is organized each year by the Automobile Club de Monaco which also runs the Monte Carlo Rally and the Junior Monaco Kart Cup .  , It differs in several ways from other Grands Prix. The practice session for the race is held on the Thursday preceding the race instead of Friday.  This allows the streets to be opened to the public again on Friday. Until the late 1990s the race started at 3:30 p.m. local time – an hour and a half later than other European Formula One races. In recent years the race has fallen in line with the other Formula One races for the convenience of television viewers. Also, earlier the event was traditionally held on the week of Ascension Day . It is now held on what is Memorial Day Weekend in the United States . For many years, the numbers of cars admitted to Grands Prix was at the discretion of the race organisers – Monaco had the smallest grids, ostensibly because of its narrow and twisting track.  Only 18 cars were permitted to enter the 1975 Monaco Grand Prix , compared to 23 to 26 cars at all other rounds that year.  , The erecting of the circuit takes six weeks, and the removal after the race takes three weeks.  There is no podium as such at the race. Instead a section of the track is closed after the race to act as parc fermé , a place where the cars are held for official inspection. The first three drivers in the race leave their cars there and walk directly to the royal box where the 'podium' ceremony is held, which is considered a custom for the race.  The trophies are handed out before the national anthems' of the driver and team are played, as opposed to other Grands Prix where the anthems are played first. [ citation needed ] , The Monaco Grand Prix is widely considered to be one of the most important and prestigious automobile races in the world alongside the Indianapolis 500-Mile Race and the 24 Hours of Le Mans .   These three races are considered to form a Triple Crown of the three most famous motor races in the world. Graham Hill is the only driver to have won the Triple Crown, by winning all three races. The practice session for Monaco overlaps with that for the Indianapolis 500, and the races themselves sometimes clash. As the two races take place on opposite sides of the Atlantic Ocean and form part of different championships, it is difficult for one driver to compete effectively in both during his career.  Juan Pablo Montoya , who won the Monaco Grand Prix in 2003 and the Indianapolis 500 in 2000 and 2015 ,  is the only driver still racing in 2015 who has won two of the three races and thus is the closest to completing the Triple Crown. [ citation needed ] , In awarding its first Gold medal for motor sport to Prince Rainier III , the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) characterised the Monaco Grand Prix as contributing "an exceptional location of glamour and prestige" to motor sport.  It has been run under the patronage of three generations of Monaco's royal family: Louis II , Rainier III and Albert II , all of whom have taken a close interest in the race. A large part of the principality's income comes from tourists attracted by the warm climate and the famous casino, but it is also a tax haven and is home to many millionaires, including several Formula One drivers.  , Monaco has produced only three native Formula One drivers, Louis Chiron , André Testut and Olivier Beretta ,  but its tax status has made it home to many drivers over the years, including Gilles Villeneuve and Ayrton Senna . Of the 2006 Formula One contenders, several have property in the principality, including Jenson Button and David Coulthard , who was part owner of a hotel there.  Because of the small size of the town and the location of the circuit, drivers whose races end early can usually get back to their apartments in minutes. Ayrton Senna famously retired to his apartment after crashing out of the lead of the 1988 race .  , Embolded drivers are still competing in the Formula One championship , 1929–1972 , 1973–1975 , 1976–1985 , 1986–1996 , Coordinates : 43°44′04″N 7°25′17″E ﻿ / ﻿ 43.7345°N 7.4214°E ﻿ / 43.7345; 7.4214  The Canadian Grand Prix (known in French as the Grand Prix du Canada ), is an annual auto race held in Canada since 1961.  It has been part of the Formula One World Championship since 1967. It was first staged at Mosport Park in Bowmanville, Ontario as a sports car event, before alternating between Mosport and Circuit Mont-Tremblant , Quebec after Formula One took over the event. After 1971, safety concerns led to the Grand Prix moving permanently to Mosport. In 1978, after similar safety concerns with Mosport, the Canadian Grand Prix moved to its current home on Île Notre-Dame in Montreal . , In 2005, the Canadian Grand Prix was the most watched Formula One GP in the world. The race was also the third most watched sporting event worldwide, behind the first place Super Bowl XXXIX and the UEFA Champions League Final .  , Preceding the qualifying session in 2014, the Grand Prix organisers announced they had agreed to a 10-year extension to keep the Canadian Grand Prix at Circuit Gilles Villeneuve through 2024.  , , , The early Canadian Grand Prix was one of the premier events of the new Canadian Sports Car Championship , a series which had been created alongside the Canadian Grand Prix at Mosport Park near Toronto in 1961. Mosport Park (which is still in its original layout configuration) was a spectacular and challenging circuit that had lots of ups and downs; the circuit was popular with drivers. Several international sports car as well as Formula One drivers participated in the event. For the first five years, the event would be won by drivers with either prior Formula One experience, or would enter the championship after winning the Canadian Grand Prix. In 1966 the Canadian-American Challenge Cup ran the event, with American Mark Donohue winning.  Formula One took over the following year, although the CSCC and Can-Am series continued to compete at Mosport in their own events. , The event was run as part of the Formula One world championship first in 1967; Mosport was selected as the venue for the event. The Ontario circuit alternated with the Circuit Mont-Tremblant in Quebec, where the Canadian Grand Prix was held in 1968 and 1970. Mont-Tremblant, like Mosport, was a spectacular circuit that had lots of elevation change and was very challenging. The first championship race was held between the German and Italian rounds; it was won by Jack Brabham with his New Zealander teammate Denny Hulme completing a Brabham 1–2. , The 1968 event saw the unlucky New Zealander Chris Amon lead from the start until 17 laps from the end of the 90 lap distance when his gearbox broke; the McLaren team finished 1–2 with Amon's countrymen Hulme and Bruce McLaren taking top honors. The 1969 event at Mosport Park saw Briton Jackie Stewart climb up from 4th to take the lead, but Jacky Ickx was coming up fast, and Stewart and Ickx battled until lap 33, when they came to lap privateer Al Pease for the fourth time, Ickx attempted to pass Stewart, and the two cars collided. Stewart was unable to get his Matra going, but Ickx did get his Brabham going, and held onto the lead until the checkered flag. An angry Stewart complained to his boss Ken Tyrrell about Pease, who complained to the organizers. The 48-year old Pease was then given the black disqualification flag after completing less than half the amount of laps the leaders had completed in an almost embarrassingly outdated Eagle-Climax, and became the only driver in F1 history ever to be disqualified for being too slow. The 1970 event saw Ickx win again with his Swiss teammate Clay Regazzoni making the result a Ferrari 1–2. But the Mont-Tremblant circuit was later closed down because of safety regarding the bitter winters seriously affecting the track surface and a dispute with the local racing authorities there in 1972. The alternating of the race stopped and Mosport solely continued to hold the Canadian Grand Prix from 1971. , The 1971 event saw Mosport Park flooded with rain; the main event was delayed after a fatal accident at a Formula Ford support race and by the time it started, it was raining heavily. Jackie Stewart took victory easily in a Tyrrell from Swede Ronnie Peterson in a March. 1972 saw Mosport upgraded with new safety features, and Stewart won again. 1973 was an interesting event; like the race 2 years previous it was a rain-soaked event. Austrian new-boy Niki Lauda in a BRM took the lead from Peterson in a Lotus on Lap 3, Lauda led until the 20th lap when he came to change tires; there was considerable confusion after François Cevert and Jody Scheckter collided on Lap 33 after which there was bungled pace car interlude after which things became very confused as this failed to pick up the leader and allowed those ahead to gain almost a lap. All this meant that Briton Jackie Oliver ended up in the lead with American Peter Revson 2nd and Frenchman Jean-Pierre Beltoise 3rd. Of these three Revson had the most competitive car and so eventually moved into the lead and led all the way to the flag while Peterson's Brazilian teammate Emerson Fittipaldi charged to try to make up for lost ground and overtook Oliver and Beltoise in the closing laps to grab second. For hours after the race confusion reigned but eventually it was confirmed that Revson was the winner- thanks to a lucky break when the pace car came out. The 1974 event saw Fittipaldi win while his championship rivals Clay Regazzoni finished 2nd and Jody Scheckter crashed heavily after a brake failure on his Tyrrell. There was no 1975 event, and 1976 event was one where Briton James Hunt found out that his 9 points from Brands Hatch were taken away and he was disqualified; Hunt won the Canadian Grand Prix event that year, driving furiously throughout the race. , 1977 was the race where French-Canadian Gilles Villeneuve made his debut for Ferrari. But concerns about the bumpy Mosport Park's safety arose when Briton Ian Ashley had a horrendous accident while cresting a bumpy rise. Ashley's Hesketh flipped over the Armco guardrails and went into a television tower. The German-born Englishman was seriously injured and safety operations to rescue him were inefficient and time-consuming; and the lack of safety at Mosport was underlined when Jochen Mass lost control of his McLaren and hit a guardrail that virtually flattened upon impact. Jody Scheckter won this race in his Wolf , but with safety not being good enough for Formula One at the rough and very fast Mosport Park circuit, a new circuit was constructed in Montreal, called the Circuit Île Notre-Dame ; where the race was first held in 1978 and where it has been held ever since. , The first winner in Montreal was Quebec native Villeneuve, driving a Ferrari. 1979 saw Australian Alan Jones win, and he then won the 1980 race and the driver's championship that year. 1980 also saw a big startline pile-up with involved Jones's Brazilian championship rival Nelson Piquet after he and Jones collided going into the very fast Droit du Casino corner. Piquet jumped into his spare car with a more powerful qualifying engine; but the engine blew up and Piquet retired from the race. Frenchman Jean-Pierre Jabouille 's season and F1 racing career came to an end when he crashed his Renault head-on into a tire wall. He had badly broken legs; it took the tall Frenchman months to recover. 1981 saw a rain-soaked event in which near end of the race, Villeneuve demonstrated his car control skill when the front wing of his Ferrari was askew from a crash and he drove on to 3rd place with the car in this condition. Frenchman Jacques Laffite took what was to be his last F1 victory, followed by Briton John Watson and Villeneuve. , Villeneuve was killed in 1982 on his final qualifying lap for the Belgian Grand Prix . A few weeks after his death, the race course in Montreal was renamed Circuit Gilles Villeneuve after him. Gilles Villeneuve was one of the first people inducted into the Canadian Motorsport Hall of Fame , and is so far the only Canadian winner of the Formula One Canadian Grand Prix. The 1982 Canadian Grand Prix was a tragic event, in the shadow of the death of Villeneuve a month earlier. It saw another accident when Villeneuve's teammate Didier Pironi stalled at the front of the grid. First, Raul Boesel struck a glancing blow to the stationary vehicle, and then Riccardo Paletti crashed directly into the rear of Pironi's Ferrari at over 180 km/h (110 mph). Pironi and F1 doctor Sid Watkins came to Paletti's aid to try to extract him from his car, which briefly caught fire. After a half hour, the 23-year old Paletti was extracted and flown to a nearby hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. Nelson Piquet won the race in his Brabham. 1982 was also significant in that the race was moved from October to June, and it has remained around this time ever since. 1983 saw Frenchman René Arnoux win his first race as a Ferrari driver, and the following year Piquet won again in a BMW-powered Brabham. 1985 saw Ferrari finish 1–2 with Italian Michele Alboreto and Swede Stefan Johansson taking top honors from Frenchman Alain Prost , while Lotus gained their final ever lockout of the front row when Elio de Angelis and Ayrton Senna started 1–2. 1986 was a competitive race, Finn Keke Rosberg in a McLaren charged through the field, caught and then passed British leader Nigel Mansell . But Rosberg, like the other front runners, had problems and so Mansell took advantage of these problems and won the race. In 1987 , the race was not held due to sponsorship dispute between two local breweries, Labatt and Molson .  During the break the track was modified, and starting line moved to its current position. , 1988 saw Brazilian Ayrton Senna take victory in the all-conquering McLaren MP4/4 with its Honda turbo engine, and the following year he so very nearly won again, but the Honda engine in his McLaren failed and Belgian Thierry Boutsen took victory, which was the first in his F1 career. 1990, like the year before, was a rain-soaked event, and it saw a number of accidents; Senna came out to win again. 1991 saw a dramatic finale in which Nigel Mansell's Williams failed on the very last lap only a few corners from the finish line; Nelson Piquet took his 23rd and final F1 victory in a Benetton. Austrian Gerhard Berger won the 1992 event after the dominant Mansell spun off after a collision with Berger's teammate Senna. Alain Prost won the 1993 event while fending off a spirited drive from Senna, and in response to the Imola tragedies, the 1994 event saw the very fast Droit du Casino curve being turned into a chicane. German Michael Schumacher won this event. Ferrari's Jean Alesi won the 1995 edition , which occurred on his 31st birthday and which would be the only win of his career. Alesi had inherited the lead when Michael Schumacher pitted with electrical problems and Damon Hill 's hydraulics failed. The victory was a popular one for Alesi, particularly after several unrewarded drives the year before, namely in Italy . Alesi's win at Montreal was voted the most popular race victory of the season by many, as it was the number 27 Ferrari—once belonging to the famous Gilles Villeneuve at his much loved home Grand Prix. Schumacher gave Alesi a lift back to the pits after Alesi's car ran out of fuel just before the Pits Hairpin. , The 1996 race saw the Casino corner removed and the layout changed; the run from the hairpin at the bottom of the circuit was turned into a straight. Briton Damon Hill won this event, and the 1997 race was stopped early due to a crash involving Olivier Panis . He was sidelined for nine races and some see it as a turning point in the career of the 1996 Monaco Grand Prix winner. The races from 1997 to 2004 (except 1999 and 2001) saw a romp of Michael Schumacher victories, all in a Ferrari. 1999 saw Finn Mika Häkkinen win, and in 2001 , there was the first sibling 1–2 finish in the history of Formula 1, as Ralf and Michael Schumacher topped the podium. The Schumacher brothers would finish 1–2 in the 2003 edition as well, 2001 was also noted for Jean Alesi achieving Prost's best finish of the season; he celebrated his fifth place by doing several donuts in his vehicle, and throwing his helmet into the crowd. The 2007 race was the site of rookie Lewis Hamilton 's first win. On lap 67, Takuma Sato overtook McLaren - Mercedes 's Fernando Alonso , to cheers around the circuit, just after overtaking Ralf Schumacher and having overtaken Ferrari's Kimi Räikkönen earlier in the race.  The race saw Sato move from the middle of the grid to the back of the pack and to a high of fifth before a pit-stop error caused him to move back to eleventh. Sato fought up 5 places in the field in the last 15 laps to finish sixth. Sato was voted "Driver of the Day" on the ITV website over Lewis Hamilton's first win. The race also saw an atrocious crash involving Robert Kubica (who went on to win the race the following season , resulting to be his only one in F1). The 2011 Canadian Grand Prix became the longest ever Formula One race to date; rainstorms delayed the race for hours; but when it got going again Briton Jenson Button stormed through the field from last place after the restart on lap 41  and caught German leader Sebastian Vettel ; whom he forced into making a mistake, passed the Red Bull driver and the Briton took victory, in what he described as "my best ever race". 2013 saw Vettel dominate in his Red Bull, but it was also to see the first Formula One-related fatality in 12 years. 38-year old track marshal Mark Robinson was run over by a recovery vehicle, and the accident happened while marshals were removing the Sauber of Esteban Gutiérrez after the Mexican had spun off during the closing stages of the race. Robinson died later in hospital and became the first track-side death in Formula One since that of marshal Graham Beveridge at the 2001 Australian Grand Prix . , In the weeks leading up the Grand Prix, city officials trap as many groundhogs as they can in and around the race course, and transport the animals to nearby Île Ste-Helene.  Nonetheless, in 1990, Alessandro Nannini struck a gopher on the track which damaged his tyre. In 2007, a groundhog disrupted the practice session of Ralf Schumacher . On race day itself, Anthony Davidson had been running in third until he struck a groundhog, initially thought to be a beaver, which forced him to pit and repair the damage to his front wing. In 2008, a groundhog crossed the track at the hairpin in the 2nd practice session but luckily did not disrupt the session. , The final corner of Circuit Gilles Villeneuve became well known for crashes involving former World Champions . In 1999, Damon Hill , Michael Schumacher and Jacques Villeneuve all crashed into the same wall which had the slogan Bienvenue au Québec ( Welcome to Quebec ) on it. The wall became ironically known as the "Wall of Champions". The wall also was involved in a crash with Ricardo Zonta , who was, at the time, the reigning FIA GT sports car champion. In recent years, GP2 Champion Nico Rosberg and CART Champion Juan Pablo Montoya have also fallen victim to the wall. In 2011 Friday practice the wall claimed reigning F1 Champion Sebastian Vettel .  , Before the wall was named it also claimed victims such as 1992 World Sportscar Champion and long-time F1 driver Derek Warwick who spectacularly crashed his Arrows - Megatron during qualifying for the 1988 Canadian Grand Prix .  , Full list of victims: , On October 7, 2008, the Canadian Grand Prix was dropped from the 2009 Formula One calendar , which left the Montreal race off the list for the first time since 1987 .  In the provisional 2009 schedule released in June 2008, the Canadian Grand Prix was to have been held on June 7, a date taken by the 2009 Turkish Grand Prix in the revised schedule.  , Since the US Grand Prix was dropped after 2007, this means that in 2009 no Formula One race was held in North America for the first time since 1958.  (The American Indianapolis 500 formed part of the FIA World Drivers' Championship from 1950 to 1960, but was not run to Formula One regulations and only very rarely entered by regular championship competitors.) , During the Australian Grand Prix, reports surfaced that the Canadian Grand Prix could return during the 2009 season in the event that the race circuit in Abu Dhabi was not ready in time.  On April 26, 2009, Speed reported Bernie Ecclestone as saying the FIA was negotiating a return of the Canadian Grand Prix for the 2010 season, provided upgrades to the circuit were completed. , On August 29, 2009, the BBC reported the provisional schedule for the 2010 season , which had both the Canadian and British Grand Prix marked down as "provisional". The Canadian GP was scheduled for June 6.  The 2010 Canadian Grand Prix was eventually run in Montreal on June 13, 2010.  , On November 27, 2009, Quebec's officials and Canadian Grand Prix organizers announced they had reached a settlement with Formula One Administration and signed a new five-year contract spanning the 2010–2014 seasons.  Under the five-year agreement, the government pays 15 million Canadian dollars a year to host the race, much less than the 35 million a year Ecclestone initially asked for.  , Because of tobacco legislation which prohibited further such sponsorship, new venues, and a maximum of 17 races on the schedule, the Canadian Grand Prix was initially removed from the 2004 F1 schedule. However, Canadian officials were able to raise enough money to keep a Grand Prix race, with the FIA allowing expansion to an 18-race schedule.   , A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship. , Coordinates : 45°30′14″N 73°31′37″W ﻿ / ﻿ 45.504°N 73.527°W ﻿ / 45.504; -73.527  The Austrian Grand Prix (German: Großer Preis von Österreich) is a Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile sanctioned auto race which was held in 1964, 1970–1987 and 1997–2003. The Grand Prix returned to the Formula One calendar in 2014 . , , , The Austrian Grand Prix has been held at two different locations in the Zeltweg area located in Spielberg in southeastern Austria. It was first held at an airfield there for two years, then a permanent race track called the Österreichring was built in 1969 and Formula One first raced there in 1970 and each subsequant race has been held there in three distinct periods as the circuit has been redeveloped and sold. , A non-championship event was held in 1963 at a race track on the Zeltweg Airfield and it was won by Australian Jack Brabham . The first championship event took place in the following year, and Italian Lorenzo Bandini won his only Formula One championship race in a Ferrari. The race was a success, but the track was deemed too dangerous; it was narrow and very bumpy, and spectators complained of poor viewing areas. The FIA removed the race from the F1 calendar until a suitable track was built. , From 1970 until 1987, the event was held at the Österreichring (translated literally as "Austrian circuit") (also located near Zeltweg ). It was built in the scenic Styrian mountains and it was a fast, flowing track where every corner was high speed and long. The Austrian Grand Prix was designated the European Grand Prix once, 1975, when this title was an honorary designation given each year to one grand prix race in Europe. The very fast track was popular with drivers, and the events were moderately successful. The first race on this track was dominated by Ferrari, with their more powerful Flat-12 engines enabled them to be 10 mph faster- which is a lot in racing terms. The 1971 race saw Swiss driver Jo Siffert dominate in his BRM and Briton Jackie Stewart took his second driver's championship. The 1975 event was marred by the fatal accident of American Mark Donohue , and the race itself was rain-soaked and was won by Vittorio Brambilla , winning the only F1 race of his career, and, true to form, he crashed when he crossed the finish line when the race was stopped early because the rain got worse. In 1976, home favorite Niki Lauda 's appalling crash at the Nürburgring caused him to miss the race, which was won by Briton John Watson in the short-lived Penske F1 team, winning his first Formula One race. , 1976 had seen the Voest-Hugel corner changed slightly into one corner instead of two corners; but 1977 saw a slow three corner chicane installed at Voest-Hugel, which was where Donohue had crashed 2 years before. What was the fastest corner on the track was now the slowest corner there and would become known as the Hella-Licht Chicane. This race was won by Australian Alan Jones in a Shadow; and like Brambilla and Watson, it was his first Grand Prix victory. 1978 saw the dominant Lotus 79s on the front row, and American Mario Andretti crashed at the Glatz Kurve on the first lap, and his teammate, Swede Ronnie Peterson took victory. 1979 started to show the superiority of turbo-charged engines on this fast and high-altitude circuit. Although Jones won again in a Williams, Jean-Pierre Jabouille and Rene Arnoux in their Renaults were able to dominate this event and the following year's race, which Jabouille won. 1981 saw three turbo-charged cars dominate the front row; and into the race, the immense power and dreadful handling of Didier Pironi's Ferrari helped him to hold up four better handling cars and get into a five-way battle for third place, which went on for a while but the four cars passed eventually passed him, one of which was Jacques Laffite who went on to win the race. 1982 saw a spectacular show in which five turbocharged cars dominated the grid; all but one of these cars retired with mechanical troubles, including Italian Riccardo Patrese who had a spectacular accident at the Texaco Bends and Frenchman Alain Prost , whose engine expired with a few laps to go while in the lead. After Prost's retirement, the race turned into a dead-heat sprint between Italian Elio de Angelis in a Lotus and Finn Keke Rosberg in a Williams. Rosberg had been steadily chipping away at De Angelis; but after Prost retired, Rosberg began to make up 1.5 seconds a lap on De Angelis; and on the last lap the two so-far winless drivers battled for victory, and De Angelis was able to hold off Rosberg and win by less than half a car's length; .05 seconds. 1984 saw Lauda finally take victory at home in his McLaren, and Prost won the next two races. The 1985 race saw a fearsome crash at the Panorama Curve when Andrea de Cesaris spectacularly rolled his Ligier, which led to him being fired from the team. 1986 saw Austrian driver Gerhard Berger lead the early laps in his 1,400 bhp (1,044 kW; 1,419 PS) Benetton-BMW, but electrical problems saw his race ruined allowing Alain Prost to take the win by over a lap from the Ferraris of Michele Alboreto and Stefan Johansson . , The 1987 race was restarted twice due to accidents on the narrow pit-straight grid; and this track was also deemed too dangerous by FIA standards, because of the amount of high-speed corners, lack of protection from trees and embankments and accidents at the start of many races on the narrow and confined pit straight. Increasing speeds were also a growing problem at the Österreichring, polesitter Nelson Piquet averaged 159.457 mph (255.756 km/h) in his 1,100 hp Honda-powered Williams. Piquet finished second to his teammate, Briton Nigel Mansell . Attempts to bring the race back were unsuccessful, and the event disappeared for a decade. , In 1995 and 1996, the Österreichring was refurbished and brought up to date, which allowed the race to run again in 1997. Since the larger portion of the modernized track, which was renamed A1-Ring after a sponsor, is located on the municipal territory of Spielberg , Spielberg was now given as the site of the Grand Prix. The whole layout was redesigned by Hermann Tilke , and the track lost all of its long, sweeping corners, aside from the Texaco Bends (which were made shorter and slower) and the Hella-Licht chicane, Flatschach, Dr. Tiroch curve and the first half of the backstretch run up to where the Bosch-Kurve was were all taken out and replaced with a bypass that went directly to the second half of the fast, uphill backstretch. The 2002 event received negative publicity after Ferrari instructed Rubens Barrichello to cede his victory to Michael Schumacher . It was a mainstay on the calendar until hosting its final race in 2003. , In July 2013, it was reported that the circuit's new owners Red Bull had reached an agreement with Bernie Ecclestone to revive the Austrian Grand Prix after a ten-year absence from the calendar. The race was given a provisional date of July 2014.  And on December 6, the officially released calendar included the Austrian Grand Prix on it.  , A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship.  The British Grand Prix is a race in the calendar of the FIA Formula One World Championship. It is currently held at the Silverstone Circuit near the village of Silverstone in Northamptonshire in England. The British and Italian Grands Prix are the oldest continuously staged Formula One World Championship Grands Prix. It was designated the European Grand Prix five times between 1950 and 1977, when this title was an honorary designation given each year to one Grand Prix race in Europe. All British Grands Prix dating back to 1926 have been held in England; where the British motor racing industry is primarily located. , , , The concrete Brooklands oval was built in 1907 near Weybridge in Surrey, located just outside of the English capital of London. It was the first purpose-built motor racing venue, as well as one of the first airfields in the United Kingdom. Grand Prix motor racing was first established in Britain by Henry Segrave in 1926 after his winning of the 1923 French Grand Prix and the San Sebastián Grand Prix the following year, which raised interest in the sport. The first ever British Grand Prix was won by the French team of Louis Wagner and Robert Sénéchal driving a Delage 155B . The second British Grand Prix was held at Brooklands in 1927. , Several non-championship races known as the Donington Grand Prix were held at Donington Park in the 1930s, where the German Mercedes and Auto Unions dominated the precedings; the 1937 race was the most notable; Auto Union driver Bernd Rosemeyer won. , Brooklands had been severely damaged by the onset of World War II and the circuit was abandoned. Most new British circuits were being built on disused Royal Air Force airfields, and Silverstone, located in Northamptonshire in central England, was one of those circuits. It staged its first race, the Royal Automobile Club International Grand Prix on October 2, 1948, which was won by Italian Luigi Villoresi in a Maserati. In 1949, the circuit was heavily modified and made very fast; and it remained in this configuration for decades on. , In 1950, the Formula One Championship was introduced, and the 1950 British Grand Prix was the first Formula One race ever held, with new regulations and 6 other races in Europe. This race was won by Alfa Romeo driver Giuseppe "Nino" Farina. King George VI was among the attendees of the race. The 1951 race was particularly exciting, as it was the first F1 race not won by an Alfa Romeo; the gas-guzzling Italian cars were beaten by another Italian car- the more fuel-efficient Ferrari of Argentine José Froilán González in what was the famed Scuderia's first ever Formula One victory. For the 1952 event, the original pits between Abbey and Woodcote was abandoned and demolished. A new pit complex was constructed between Woodcote and Copse corners; Alberto Ascari dominated this and the next year's race; González won again in 1954 in a Ferrari. , In 1955, the Formula One circus began to alternate between Silverstone and the Aintree circuit , located on the Grand National horse racing course near Liverpool. Mercedes drivers Juan Manuel Fangio and home favorite Stirling Moss arrived at Aintree expecting to win. They took the lead at the start and the two drivers battled throughout, and Moss passed Fangio on the 26th lap; and he kept the lead for a while; but Fangio fought back and was about to pass Moss on the last corner on the last lap, and all were certain Fangio would pip Moss at the checkered flag. But he didn't, and Moss won his first Formula One race on home soil. Moss later asked Fangio "did you let me through?" and the Argentine replied "No. You were better than me that day." Mercedes romped to the finish 1-2-3-4, with German Karl Kling and Italian Piero Taruffi finishing 3rd and 4th. , The even-numbered years were at Silverstone and the odd numbered and 1962 were at Aintree. 1956 saw Fangio win in a Ferrari, and 1957 returned to see Moss win again in a Vanwall; he took over his ill teammate Tony Brooks's car and stormed through the field to take victory. This was the first Grand Prix victory for a British-built car- Formula One would soon be mostly made up of British teams. 1958 was when Peter Collins won in a Ferrari and Bernie Ecclestone was entered in a Connaught but his car was driven by Jack Fairman ; and 1959 and 1960 saw Australian Jack Brabham win in a mid-engined Cooper. The last race at Aintree was in 1962, when Briton Jim Clark won his first of 5 British Grand Prix's; Aintree was later decommissioned in 1964. , 1964 saw the first Formula One race at the southern English circuit known as Brands Hatch , located in Kent, just outside of London . The track was built in the early 1950s and had been extended in 1960. Silverstone hosted the British Grand Prix in odd-numbered years and Brands Hatch in even-numbered years. Like Silverstone, the circuit was popular with drivers, and unlike the flat Northamptonshire circuit and Aintree, Brands Hatch had many banked corners and lots of elevation change. Like the year before at Silverstone, Clark won the 1964 race, and the next year's race. 1967 saw Clark take yet another dominant win, and 1968 saw a monumental battle between Swiss Jo Siffert in a Lotus and New Zealander Chris Amon in a Ferrari; Siffert won the race, his first of two victories in F1 on the circuit where he would lose his life in a non-championship race 3 years later. , 1969 saw another big battle between home favorite Jackie Stewart and Austrian Jochen Rindt , that went on for a while; although Rindt had a loose rear wing and had to come into the pits to get it repaired; Stewart took the checkered flag driving a Ford/Cosworth-powered Matra for Ken Tyrrell . Rindt won the 1970 event at the expense of Brabham running out of fuel at the end of the race, and 1971 saw Stewart win again in a Tyrrell (Ken Tyrrell had started building his own cars). 1973, however, saw a huge first lap accident at Woodcote that took out 11 cars, including all 3 works Surtees cars. Amazingly, there were no deaths or any fires and the worst news was that Andrea de Adamich received career-ending ankle injuries. 1974 saw Austrian up-and-comer Niki Lauda dominate the race in his Ferrari, however a rear-tire puncture slowed his car and rivals Jody Scheckter and Emerson Fittipaldi passed Lauda to take 1st and 2nd. , 1975 saw a chicane added to Woodcote to slow cars going through the very high speed corner; and this was another race of variables as a rain storm hit the track and a number of drivers including Scheckter and Briton James Hunt hydroplaned off the track at the same corner; Fittipaldi won the race after it was called short. 1976 also saw changes to Brands Hatch including making the fearsome Paddock Hill bend a bit more tame and South Bank corner more of a left hand apex rather than a long hairpin. This race proved to be very controversial; as home favorite Hunt won the race but was later disqualified following a protest from Ferrari and other teams about Hunt not completing the first lap of the race; and the victory went to 2nd-placed Lauda. 1977 saw Hunt take victory without any controversy and when F1 returned to Silverstone 2 years later, Australian Alan Jones lapped the circuit more than 6 seconds inside the lap record in his ground-effect Williams. His teammate Clay Regazzoni won the race, Williams's first F1 victory. 1980 saw Jones win after the Ligiers of Jacques Laffite and Didier Pironi retired; and 1981 saw French rising star Alain Prost thoroughly dominate the first part race in his Renault; and there was an accident involving Canadian Gilles Villeneuve at the Woodcote Chicane which held up Briton John Watson ; but Watson passed several cars and won the race; the first for a car with an all-carbon fibre chassis. 1982 saw polesitter Keke Rosberg having to start from the back due to problems with his Williams and he begun a charge that brought him far up the field; but he retired, and there was another spectacular showing from Briton Derek Warwick in his underfunded Toleman; he managed to pass Pironi for 2nd, but he also retired with a broken driveshaft; the victory went to Austrian Lauda. , 1983 saw Prost win his 1st of 5 British Grands Prix and a spectacular performance from Briton Nigel Mansell in his first outing in a turbocharged Lotus, he started 16th and finished 4th. Lauda won again at Brands Hatch in 1984, during which FISA president Jean-Marie Balestre announced that the Tyrrell team was to be excluded from that year's championship for fuel irregularities, and the restarted race after a huge accident at Bottom Bend caused more controversy; Prost and Lauda had passed Brazilian Nelson Piquet on the last lap of the first race, but Piquet started in front of the two McLaren drivers; regulations dictated that the positions were on the grid were to be determined 2 laps before the restart was called; and an irate Prost made scathing comments about his countryman Balestre. , 1985 was to see Keke Rosberg set the all-time Formula 1 qualifying lap record for 17 years after posting fastest qualifying time for the race with an average speed of 258.983 km/h (160.92 mph). Silverstone, which was already a very fast circuit, was becoming faster and faster and the cars were lapping the circuit in the low 1-minute range. The race was an exciting one with Brazilian rising star Ayrton Senna making a great start from 4th and taking the lead by the first corner. He led until late in the race, when his car was running out of fuel while Prost was pushing him hard; Senna eventually ran out of fuel and Prost went on to take victory. 1986 saw 42-year old Jacques Laffite get involved in a first corner accident and slam head-on into the barriers, breaking both his legs and ending his Formula One career. Nigel Mansell, whose car broke at the start of the first race, got into his teammate Piquet's spare car and won the race; although this was the last F1 race at Brands Hatch. A number of people had concerns about the speeds of the cars on the small track; particularly the European Grand Prix held at Brands Hatch the previous year.  The southern English circuit was getting to be very fast- now with these 1,000+ hp, 1,180 pound cars, pole sitter Piquet's average qualifying speed was 140.483 mph (227.583 km/h) and his lap time was in the 1 minute 6 second range, compared to the 1 minute 20 second range in 1976. But Brands Hatch's demise was for political reasons- the international motorsports governing body at the time, FISA, had instituted a policy of long-term contracts for one circuit per Grand Prix. Brands Hatch was perceived as a poorer facility, and it did have very little run-off and room to expand, something Silverstone had in acres. Silverstone and the BRDC had signed a seven-year contract with Formula 1 and FISA at some point in 1986, to run from 1987 to 1993.  , 1987 saw Silverstone modified; the Woodcote chicane was no longer used and a new left-right chicane was built on the Farm Straight just before Woodcote. Silverstone's layout, like Brands Hatch, had changed little since 1949. The circuit was still fast; and it saw Mansell charge after Piquet (who had decided to run the whole race on one set of tires) and the British driver broke the lap record 11 times, caught and passed Piquet and took victory; the Silverstone crowd broke ranks and ran onto the circuit after the race was over; this was to start a number of dramatic events surrounding Mansell for the next 5 years. 1988 saw Senna win a rain-soaked event, and Mansell finished 2nd after driving very hard and passing many cars to attempt to catch Senna; this was one of Mansell's two race finishes that season. 1989 saw Prost win in a McLaren after his teammate Senna went off at Becketts; Mansell finished 2nd again driving for Ferrari; and sometime after the event, it was decided that Silverstone, the fastest circuit on the Formula One calendar, was to be heavily modified, and the project would be completed for 1991. The 1990 Grand Prix was the last motor race on the high-speed circuit; and Mansell drove hard and led a lot of the race; but gearbox problems eventually forced him to retire, where he threw his gloves into the crowd and announced that he was going to retire, a decision that he would later take back; and he effectively dominated the next two events, driving for Williams. The circuit was now slower and every corner on the circuit except Copse was different, and it also included an infield section right before the pits. After 1992, Mansell had retired from F1, and 1993 saw new Williams driver Damon Hill lead much of the race until his engine blew up, and Hill's French teammate Alain Prost took his 50th career Grand Prix win. , After the tragedies of Imola in 1994, a chicane was installed at the flat-out Abbey corner 6 weeks before the event was due to take place and Stowe corner was slowed considerably. Hill won the event, something his double world champion father Graham never did. 1995 saw another British driver, Johnny Herbert, take victory in his Benetton. 1996 saw further changes to the circuit, where Stowe was more or less restored to its 1991 design, and the 1999 event saw double world champion Michael Schumacher crash heavily at Stowe; he broke his leg, missed many races and this put him out of championship contention. There were attempts to bring the British GP back to Brands Hatch for 2002, but this never materialized. , The 2003 event was disrupted by a defrocked priest, Cornelius Horan , who ran onto the Hangar Straight during the race while cars were coming at him at 160+ mph. Marshals were able to get him off the track before he hurt himself or anyone else and he was later arrested; Brazilian Rubens Barrichello won the race for Ferrari. A dispute between Silverstone's owners, the British Racing Drivers' Club (BRDC), and the Formula One authorities in 2003 over the funding of necessary improvements to the track's facilities led to doubts over the future of the race. In October 2004 the British Grand Prix was left off the preliminary race schedule for 2005 because the BRDC refused to pay the race fee demanded by Bernie Ecclestone . However, after months of negotiation between the BRDC, Ecclestone and the Formula One constructors, a deal was made for the Grand Prix to be held at Silverstone until 2009. 2008 saw Briton Lewis Hamilton win for McLaren; and on the 4 of July, it was announced that Donington Park had been awarded the contract to host the British Grand Prix for 10 years from 2010.  However, Donington failed to secure the necessary funding to host the race, and its contract was terminated in November 2009. On 7 December 2009, Silverstone signed a 17-year contract to host the British Grand Prix from 2010 onwards. The 2010 race saw a new circuit configuration being used, using the brand new "Arena" layout.  For 2011 a new pit complex was built between Club and Abbey Corners, to where the start/finish line was moved. Silverstone is still a very fast circuit- with average speeds up in the 145 mph range for Formula 1 cars; one of the highest average speeds on the F1 calendar. , Despite the controversy and political bickering that has surrounded the future of the race in recent years, the British Grand Prix at Silverstone remains one of the world's premier motor racing events. , Embolded drivers are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season. , A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship. , Coordinates : 52°04′16″N 1°00′58″W ﻿ / ﻿ 52.071°N 1.016°W ﻿ / 52.071; -1.016  The Hungarian Grand Prix ( Hungarian : Magyar Nagydíj ) is a motor race held annually in Hungary. Since 1986, the race has been a round of the FIA Formula One World Championship. , , , The first Hungarian Grand Prix was held on June 21, 1936 over a 3.1-mile (5.0 km) track laid out in Népliget ,  a park in Budapest . The Mercedes-Benz , Auto Union , and the Alfa Romeo-equipped Ferrari teams all sent three cars and the event drew a very large crowd. However, politics and the ensuing war meant the end of Grand Prix motor racing in the country for fifty years. , A major coup by Bernie Ecclestone , the 1986 Hungarian Grand Prix was the first Formula One race to take place behind the Iron Curtain . Held at the twisty Hungaroring in Mogyoród near Budapest , the race has been a mainstay of the racing calendar. Run in the heat of a central European summer, it also held the distinction of being the only current Grand Prix venue that had never seen a wet race up until the 2006 Hungarian Grand Prix . The first Grand Prix saw 200,000 people  spectating, although tickets were expensive at the time. Today, the support is still very enthusiastic, particularly from Finns.  , Due to the nature of the track, narrow, twisty and often dusty because of under-use, the Hungarian Grand Prix is associated with processional races, with sometimes many cars following one another, unable to pass. Thierry Boutsen demonstrated this perfectly in 1990, keeping his slower Williams car in front of champion-elect Ayrton Senna , unable to find a way by. The secret to a winning performance at Hungaroring, as well as qualifying well, is pit strategy, best demonstrated in 1998, where Michael Schumacher 's Ferrari team changed his strategy mid-race before Schumacher put in one of his finest drives to build up a winning margin after all the stops had been made. Passing is a rarity here, although the 1989 race saw a famously bullish performance from Nigel Mansell in the Ferrari, who started from 12th on the grid and passed car after car, finally taking the lead in splendid opportunist style when Ayrton Senna was baulked by a slower runner. The circuit was modified slightly in 2003 in an attempt to allow more passing. , Other notable occasions in Budapest include first Grand Prix wins for Damon Hill in 1993, Fernando Alonso (in 2003), the first Grand Prix winner from Spain , who also became the youngest ever driver (at the time) to win a GP, Jenson Button in an incident-packed race in 2006 and Heikki Kovalainen in 2008, the latter of whom was also the 100th Grand Prix winner. Also noteworthy is Damon Hill's near-win in the technically inferior Arrows - Yamaha in 1997, when his car lost drive on the last lap causing him to coast in second place, and Lewis Hamilton coming within six seconds of winning in 2014, despite starting the race from the pit lane. , In 2001, Michael Schumacher equalled Alain Prost 's then record 51 Grand Prix wins at the Hungaroring, in the drive which also secured his 4th World Title which also matched Prost's career tally.  , The 2006 Grand Prix was the first to be held here in wet conditions. Button took his first victory from 14th place on the grid.  , At the 2013 Hungarian Grand Prix , it was confirmed that Hungary will continue to host a Formula 1 race until 2021.  , Only includes World Championship events , Teams in bold are currently competing in Formula One. , A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship. , Coordinates : 47°34′59″N 19°15′04″E ﻿ / ﻿ 47.583°N 19.251°E ﻿ / 47.583; 19.251  The Belgian Grand Prix ( Dutch : Grote Prijs van België ; French : Grand Prix de Belgique ; German : Großer Preis von Belgien ) is an automobile race , part of the Formula One World Championship. The first national race of Belgium was held in 1925 at the Spa region's race course, an area of the country that had been associated with motor sport since the very early years of racing. To accommodate Grand Prix motor racing , the Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps race course was built in 1921 but it was only used for motorcycle racing until 1924. After the 1923 success of the new 24 hours of Le Mans in France, the Spa 24 Hours , a similar 24-hour endurance race, was run at the Spa track. , Since inception, Spa-Francorchamps has been known for its unpredictable weather. At one stage in its history it had rained at the Belgian Grand Prix for twenty years in a row. Frequently drivers confront a part of the course that is clear and bright while another stretch is rainy and slippery. , The Belgian Grand Prix was designated the European Grand Prix six times between 1925 and 1973, when this title was an honorary designation given each year to one grand prix race in Europe. It is one of the most popular races on the Formula One calendar, due to the scenic and historical Spa-Francorchamps circuit being a favorite of drivers and fans. , , , In 1925, the first Belgian Grand Prix was held at the very fast, 9-mile Spa-Francorchamps circuit located in the Ardennes region of eastern Belgium, about half an hour from Liege. This race was won by the Italian works Alfa driver Antonio Ascari , whose son Alberto would win the race in 1952 and 1953. Sadly, after winning the Belgian race, Antonio Ascari was killed in his next race at the 1925 French Grand Prix . The Grand Prix did not come back until 1930, and the circuit had been modified, bypassing the Malmedy chicane. The race was won by Louis Chiron, and in 1931, the Grand Prix had become something of an endurance race, with Briton William Grover-Williams and Caberto Conelli winning. 1933 was won by Tazio Nuvolari, and 1935 was won by Rudolf Caracciola in a Mercedes, by which time the circuit had re-installed the Malmedy Chicane. The 1939 race saw the birth of the Raidillon corner; it was a bypass to the Ancienne Douane section. In contrast to popular belief, the corner to the left at the bottom of the drop is named Eau Rouge, wich directly leads into Radillion, a very long right uphand corner. The tricky left blind corner at the top has no name. The conditions were dreadful, and the race was marred by the death of British driver Richard "Dick" Seaman while leading the race. Going into Clubhouse corner, Seaman was pushing hard, he skidded off the rain-soaked road, hit a tree and his Mercedes caught fire. Seaman received life-threatening burns, and he succumbed to his injures later in hospital. The race was won by Seaman's teammate Hermann Lang . World War II broke out, and the Belgian Grand Prix did not return until June 1946, when the 2 to 4.5 litres race at Bois de la Cambre was won by Frenchman Eugène Chaboud in a Delage. , Spa was modified to make it even faster, shortening it to 8.7 miles (14.1 km). All of the slow corners were taken out – the Stavelot hairpin was bypassed and made into a fast banked corner and the Malmedy chicane was also bypassed. At this time, every corner except La Source was ultra-high speed. Spa over this time became known as one of the most extreme, challenging and fearsome circuits in motorsports history. 1950 saw the introduction of the Formula One World Championship; the race was dominated by the Alfa Romeos of Argentine Juan Manuel Fangio and Italian Nino Farina . Their closest challenger, Alberto Ascari , ran into fuel problems and fell back. The race was won by Fangio, and Farina won the next year's race in his works Alfa after Fangio dropped back with hub problems. 1953 saw Ascari dominate in his Ferrari while the Maseratis fell apart. Fangio crashed and José Froilán González had a steering failure and stopped out near the banked Stavelot corner. 1955 saw Mercedes dominate, Fangio and his British teammate Stirling Moss led the race distance. Moss followed Fangio closely for most of the race, the Argentine took victory as he had the year before in a Maserati. 1956 saw a wet race, with Moss in a Maserati lead, and Fangio, now driving for Ferrari, made a bad start and dropped to fifth at the start, although he got up to second behind Moss. The track was drying, and Moss lost a wheel at Raidillon corner. Fortunately he didn't hit anything and went back to take over his teammate Cesare Perdisa's car and was able to finish 3rd. The gearbox in Fangio's car broke, and his teammate Peter Collins won the race. , The 1957 race was cancelled because there was no money for the race to be held, thanks to the extreme prices of fuel in Belgium and the Netherlands caused by the Suez crisis . 1958 saw Spa upgraded with new facilities, a resurfaced track and also the pit straight was made wider. But Spa had gained a reputation as a totally unforgiving, frightening and a very mentally challenging circuit, even in those safety-absent days. The layout was still the same as before, and the extremely small, almost non-existent margin for error as described before had been realized very quickly. The circuit was extremely challenging, mainly because each corner on the circuit was so fast and the circuit's long length plus the fact that it was only really made up of fast corners and straights. The circuit was so fast that really wasn't all that much slower than most American ovals, such as Indianapolis . This made Spa a considerable mental challenge- each corner was as important as the other; each corner had to be taken right, because this affected one's speed through the next corner, and the next one, and so on. If a driver got his line wrong or was even slightly slow through any corner on the track- he would lose not tenths of seconds- but whole seconds, usually 5–8 seconds, and if a driver lifted even just a little bit anywhere on the track (particularly through corners like Burnenville or Stavelot), they would usually lose 2–3 seconds instantly from their lap time. This also applied to physical treatment- crashes in those days usually meant serious injury or death. If a driver made even the smallest mistake or the slightest error in judgement, the punishment was always extremely harsh, mentally and physically. Spa was also a circuit that was located in a region where the weather was rather unpredictable; there were many races there where one part of the track was dry and had sunshine while at the same time, another part would soaking wet and it would be raining. There were no radios in the days of the old Spa circuit, so drivers had no idea of circuit conditions and would often would drive flat out into a wall of rain that wasn't there on the previous lap; this often meant an accident and when that happened- because of the rural area of the circuit, drivers did not know what they were going to hit when crashing at Spa; either they dropped into a lower area or hit telegraph poles, houses, stone walls, embankments or trees. Many drivers were killed or seriously injured at Spa during the 1950s in all disciplines of motorsports that competed there. , 1958 was won by Briton Tony Brooks, driving a Vanwall; beating out teammate Stirling Moss. The prestigious Belgian event was not run in 1959, but 1960 was to be one of the darkest weekends in the history of Formula One. Grand Prix racing had moved forward to a new kind of car design – new British independent teams such as Cooper and Lotus had pioneered the rear mid engined car, much like the Auto Union Grand Prix cars of the 1930s. These cars were considerably lighter, faster and easier to drive than their front engined predecessors, and it became obvious that rear mid-engined cars were the way to go in purpose-built automobile racing. But these new type of cars had not been driven at Spa before, so no one knew how they would perform there. The high-speed bends at Spa were now much faster with these new cars – and in those days, the cars or circuits for that matter had absolutely no safety features of any kind. The cylinder-shaped bodywork was made of very thin highly flammable magnesium and/or fibreglass, and the tube-frame chassis of that day offered little to no crash resistance (as opposed to a modern-day monocoque, pioneered by Lotus only a few years later). Cars were not crash-tested and didn't have any installed equipment such as rollbars (made mandatory in 1961) or fire extinguishers. Although drivers did wear helmets, they were shaped like paper plates, made of weak and lightweight material and not scientifically designed or tested. Drivers in those days did not even wear seatbelts – they found it preferable to be thrown from a car that might be on fire to reduce the chance of injury or death. , During practice, Stirling Moss, now driving a privately entered Lotus, suffered a rear upright failure and crashed heavily at the Burnenville right hander. Moss, who was one of the best racing drivers in the world at the time, was thrown out of his car and his unconscious but living body landed in the middle of the track. The Englishman broke both legs, three vertebrae, several ribs and had many cuts and abrasions; he survived but didn't race for most of that year. Briton Mike Taylor, also driving a Lotus, suffered a steering failure and crashed into trees next to the track near Stavelot. Taylor then was trapped in the car for some time with serious head and neck injuries. This accident ended his racing career; he later successfully sued Lotus founder Colin Chapman in British court for sale of faulty machinery. The race itself, however, was to be even more disastrous. On lap 17, Briton Chris Bristow , driving a Cooper, was fighting for sixth with Belgian Willy Mairesse . The very young Bristow, having never driven at Spa before, was known as a brash and daring driver who had a reputation for being rather wild; the relatively inexperienced 22-year-old Englishman had been in lots of accidents in his short career. This was due to his unruly and very aggressive driving style, and he was possibly in way over his head at Spa-Francorchamps. Mairesse was also known as an equally aggressive driver who had a win-at-all-costs mentality and was known to be difficult to pass, particularly on his home track- the fact that these 2 drivers were racing against other on this track meant that disaster was perhaps inevitable. Bristow and Mairesse touched wheels, and the Englishman lost control at Malmedy, overturned and crashed into an embankment on the right side of the track. The car rolled and flipped a number of times, Bristow was thrown from his car and was beheaded by some barbed-wire fencing next to the circuit; his lifeless body landed on the track where it stayed for some time. Mairesse continued, but retired from the race later on with gearbox trouble. 5 laps later, 26-year-old Briton Alan Stacey , running in sixth place and driving a works Lotus, suffered a freak occurrence when he got hit in the face by a bird on the Masta straight not far from where Bristow had been killed. Stacey then lost control of his car at 140 mph (228 km/h) and it climbed up and flew off an embankment next to the track. After penetrating 10 feet of thick bushes, the car landed on a spot in a field some 25 feet lower than the track. On impact with the field, it then exploded and burst into flames; the hapless Englishman was killed by this horrific crash. It was not known whether the impact broke his neck or if the fire burned him alive while unconscious. Australian Jack Brabham won the race, and British future great Jim Clark scored his first Formula One points by finishing 5th – but the great Scottish driver, like a number of other drivers, developed an intense dislike of the circuit after he had to swerve at extreme speeds to avoid running over Bristow's headless body. This disastrous event would remain the darkest weekend for Formula One until the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix . The race itself was won by Australian Jack Brabham , and it proved to be a gruelling and brutal race for him – he was chased by American works Ferrari driver Phil Hill all the way to the end, the Los Angeles native had to pit because of a broken fuel line.  , 1961 saw Ferrari make use of their superior horsepower, and they romped home 1–2–3–4, with Phil Hill winning. 1962 saw Clark win his first race, going on to win the next 3 Belgian Grands Prix. 1963 was a rain-soaked race with Clark finishing 4 and a half minutes in front of second placed Bruce McLaren . 1966 was an interesting race; it featured cars built under new regulations with the engine capacity up to a maximum of 3 liters from 1.5- engines had now twice as much horsepower as before. This year saw another rain soaked race: on the first lap, as the field reached the far side of the circuit, a heavy rain-storm caused 7 drivers to hydroplane off at Burnenville. Briton Jackie Stewart had a high speed accident at the Masta Kink, where he went through a woodcutter's hut, hit a telegraph pole, and dropped into a much lower part of the circuit where the car landed upside down. The BRM Stewart was driving had bent itself over his legs, he could not get out by himself and the Scot ended up being stuck in his car for nearly 30 minutes. Stewart's misery was made worse by the fact that the fuel tanks, which were bags located inside the car that flanked the driver, had ruptured and were soaking him with inflammable fuel, and he also had broken ribs and collarbone. Stewart's BRM teammate Graham Hill and Bob Bondurant, both of whom had gone off near Stewart, came to help the hapless Scotsman. Because of the absence of safety precautions in those days, they had to borrow spanners from a nearby spectator, and the two drivers got Stewart out. There were other bad accidents on the circuit; some of the cars were hanging off 30 feet high ledges. Stewart's crash at this race was one that effectively began his crusade for safety at racetracks. The race was nearly unmanageable, there was so much water on the track that the Climax engine in Clark's Lotus was flooded and failed. Briton John Surtees won the race in a Ferrari, followed by Austrian Jochen Rindt in a Cooper. , 1967 saw American Dan Gurney in his Eagle win after Clark had mechanical problems – it was to be Eagle's only F1 victory and Briton Mike Parkes crashed appallingly at 150 mph at Blanchimont after slipping on some oil that had dropped off of Jackie Stewart's BRM. After his car hit and climbed up an embankment, the works Ferrari driver was thrown out of his car, receiving serious leg and head injuries. The doctors considered amputation of his legs (but this was not done), and he then lapsed into a coma for a week. Miraculously, the English Parkes survived, but he never raced in Formula One again. 1968 was historically a very important race, as it saw a number of firsts: wings as an aerodynamic device were introduced for the first time in Formula One. The European constructors, particularly Colin Chapman and Mauro Forghieri , were influenced by American Jim Hall 's Chaparral 2E and 2F sports cars' very large high strutted wings. New Zealander Chris Amon qualified his rear-wing equipped Ferrari on pole position by 4 seconds over Stewart in a Matra. Come race day, McLaren won their first ever victory as a constructor, with its New Zealander founder Bruce McLaren winning – but the race saw yet another serious accident. Briton Brian Redman crashed his works Cooper heavily at very high speed into a parked Ford Cortina road car at Burnenville, and the Cooper caught fire. He was seriously burned and he had also badly broken his right arm; he did not race for most of that year. , And come the next season, the Grand Prix racing fraternity had finally snapped: Spa was getting out of order with Formula One. The rural country circuit was very much feared by the drivers, and a number of them disliked the track. It was the fastest road circuit in Europe at that time and average lap speeds were past 150 mph (240 km/h), and as the years went on Formula One cars were becoming faster and faster, so the circuit became more and more dangerous. The ultra-fast Belgian circuit was made up of everyday public roads that went past towns, farmland, trees, people's homes, fields, and telegraph wire poles, and the conditions of the circuit were, apart from a few useless straw bales, virtually identical to everyday civilian use. Safety in motor racing (not just in Formula One) was nearly non-existent and hardly any thought, or none at all, was ever given to safety. Most drivers in those days preferred the danger element of the sport back then, as it gave them satisfaction to do something dangerous and survive doing it. But times were changing, and this was demonstrated when things came to a head when the Belgian Grand Prix was scheduled for 8 June 1969 as part of the that year's season at Spa. When Jackie Stewart visited the circuit on behalf of the Grand Prix Drivers' Association he demanded many improvements to safety barriers and road surfaces, in order to make the track safe for racing.  When the track owners did not want to pay for the safety improvements, the British, French and Italian teams withdrew from the event, and it was cancelled in early April. The exclusion of the Belgian Grand Prix that year was not popular with the press (particularly well-known British journalist Denis Jenkinson ), who were having a difficult time accepting the growing professionalism and business aspects of the sport.  One last race was held there in 1970 with barriers and a temporary chicane at the fast Malmedy corner installed at the circuit, but even this did not stop the cars still averaging over 150 miles per hour (240 km/h) around the 8.7 miles (14.0 km) track. The race was won by Mexican Pedro Rodriguez in a BRM with New Zealander Chris Amon finishing 1.1 seconds behind in a March. But Spa was still too fast and too dangerous, as proven in 1971, the track was not up to mandatory FIA-mandated safety specs and the Belgian Grand Prix was cancelled that year. The event was then eventually relocated. , Following that decision, the Belgians decided to alternate their Grand Prix between Zolder in northern Belgium and a circuit at Nivelles-Baulers near Brussels . The first race at Nivelles in 1972 was won by Emerson Fittipaldi . Zolder hosted the race the following year and it was won by Jackie Stewart . Formula One returned to Nivelles in 1974. Once again the race was won by Fittipaldi, but the circuit was unpopular among the Formula One circus and after that event the organizers were unable to sustain a Grand Prix at Nivelles, and the track faded from the racing scene. , The Belgian Grand Prix would be held at Zolder a further nine times. Niki Lauda scored back-to-back victories at the track in 1975 and 1976, and in 1977 Gunnar Nilsson scored his only F1 victory at Zolder. The following year Mario Andretti dominated the race for Lotus , driving the 79 in its debut race. In 1979, Jody Scheckter won the race in his Ferrari , and in 1980 Didier Pironi became a first time winner in his Ligier . , The 1981 meeting was a chaotic event wrapped in the midst of the FISA-FOCA war and the poor conditions of the Zolder circuit, including its very narrow pitlane. During Friday practice, an Osella mechanic was accidentally run over in the pitlane by Argentine Carlos Reutemann (the mechanic, Giovanni Amadeo, died of his injuries the day after the race), and on race day, as a result of the poor conditions of Zolder and the accident on Friday, there was drivers' strike which caused the race to be started later than scheduled. Then, when the race started after yet another delay, there was a startline accident involving an Arrows mechanic. Riccardo Patrese stalled his Arrows on the grid, so his mechanic Dave Luckett jumped onto the circuit to try and start Patrese's car. However, the organizers started the race and the whole field went into motion while Luckett was still on the road. Next, the other Arrows driver, Italian Siegfried Stohr , hit the back of Patrese's car, where Luckett was standing. Luckett was knocked unconscious and laid sprawled on the circuit. Then, when the field reached the pit straight again (by which time Luckett had been removed from the road, although the track still had Stohr's broken Arrows car on the circuit and the surface was littered with debris) a number of track marshals jumped onto the tarmac and frantically waved their arms to try to make the field stop while waving yellow flags instead of red flags. Unfortunately the cars went by at full racing speeds and the drivers, made confused by the messy situation, waved back at the marshals: when they came back again for the third lap they voluntarily stopped themselves. The race was restarted and was won by Reutemann. Luckett survived the incident and neither Patrese and Stohr started the second race. , Zolder will be primarily remembered, however, as the place where Gilles Villeneuve died during practice in 1982 after a collision with West German Jochen Mass going into the fast Butte corner. Villeneuve's Ferrari flipped a number of times and the hapless Canadian was thrown out of his car during the accident; he succumbed to his severe injuries into the night at a hospital near the circuit. John Watson won the race for McLaren . , Spa-Francorchamps had been shortened to 4.3 mi (7 km) in 1979; the parts that went into and through the urban countryside that swept past towns and other obstructions had been cut out and replaced with a new series of corners right before the Les Combes left-hand corner, and the new track rejoined the old on the straight leading up to Blanchimont. The first race at the shortened Spa circuit was won by Frenchman Alain Prost , and the circuit was an immediate hit with drivers, teams and fans. , The Belgian Grand Prix returned to Zolder in 1984 and this was the last F1 race held at the Flemish circuit with Italian Michele Alboreto taking victory in a Ferrari. , 1985 saw the event postponed because of a new asphalt that had been laid down specifically to help the cars on the often rain-soaked Spa circuit. But to the embarrassment of the organizers, the weather was hot, and the track surface broke up so badly the drivers could not drive on it. The prestigious Belgian event was moved from its original date in early June to mid-September. When mid-September came around, Brazilian Ayrton Senna took his first of 5 Belgian Grands Prix in a wet/dry race, driving a Lotus. Nigel Mansell dominated the 1986 event, and he and Senna took each other out the following year when Mansell attempted to pass the Brazilian on the outside of a wide corner. Senna won the next 4 Belgian Grands Prix, the first 2 being rain-soaked events. The 1988 event was the first Belgian Grand Prix to be held in late August/early September instead of May or June (excluding the rescheduled 1985 event) and it has remained in this time frame ever since. The 1990 event had to be restarted twice after a multi-car accident at the La Source hairpin on the first start and then Paolo Barilla crashing at Eau Rouge on the second start. In 1992 German up-and-comer Michael Schumacher won his first of 91 Grand Prix victories in a Benetton. Damon Hill won the 1993 event after battling with Senna and Schumacher. , 1994 saw a chicane installed at the bottom of Eau Rouge in response to the Imola tragedies that year. 1995 saw the chicane gone, and Schumacher won this and the next two Belgian Grand Prix. The 1998 event was particularly notable, in torrential conditions. The race was originally stopped after an accident involving thirteen of the twenty-two runners at the first corner. The heavy rain caused low visibility, and Michael Schumacher ran into the back of David Coulthard , an event that angered Schumacher so much he stormed into the McLaren garage to confront Coulthard, claiming he had tried to kill him. Coulthard later admitted he had been at fault, due to his own inexperience.  Only eight drivers were classified finishers (two of whom were five laps behind, one of whom was Coulthard) and Damon Hill secured a victory ahead of team mate Ralf Schumacher to record the previously underperforming Jordan team's first Formula One win in its history, and a 1–2 to top it off. , Schumacher won his 52nd Grand Prix at Spa in 2001, surpassing Alain Prost 's all-time record of 51 wins. Schumacher also won his seventh World Drivers' Championship title at Spa in 2004. There was no Belgian Grand Prix in 2003 because of the country's tobacco advertising laws. In 2006, the FIA announced the Belgian Grand Prix would not be part of the 2006 Formula One season , since the local authorities had started major repair work in Spa-Francorchamps. The Belgian Grand Prix returned in 2007, when Kimi Räikkönen took pole position and his 3rd Belgian Grand Prix win in a row. , In 2008, McLaren's Lewis Hamilton survived a frantic last two laps in a late shower of rain to win the Belgian Grand Prix. Hamilton lost the lead to Ferrari's Kimi Räikkönen with an early spin but fought back in the closing laps to re-take the lead with two laps to go. On a soaking track, Hamilton passed Räikkönen, lost the lead again with a spin, re-took it and then saw Räikkönen crash. Ferrari's Felipe Massa took second leaving him eight points behind Hamilton. However, the stewards decided after the race to apply a drive-through penalty for Hamilton's pass on Räikkönen (i.e. a 25-second penalty) after they had deemed that Hamilton had cut a corner in the Bus Stop chicane. This left Hamilton in third place behind Ferrari's Felipe Massa and BMW Sauber's Nick Heidfeld. The penalty cut Hamilton's lead over Massa to just two points with five races remaining. McLaren appealed the decision but were turned down as it is not permissible to appeal drive-through penalties. The stewards' decision was criticised by former world champion Niki Lauda calling it "completely wrong".  , In 2009, Bernie Ecclestone said in an interview that he would like the Belgian Grand Prix to rotate with a Grand Prix at the Nürburgring , rather than the Nürburgring rotating with the Hockenheimring .  In January 2015, the economy minister of the Walloon Government Jean-Claude Marcourt, confirmed a contract extension to host the Belgian Grand Prix race at Spa through 2018.  , Michael Schumacher has won the Belgian Grand Prix 6 times and Ayrton Senna won 5 times; including 4 times in a row from 1988–1991, and Kimi Räikkönen and Jim Clark both won 4 times (Clark also won 4 times in row, from 1962–1965). , Embolded drivers are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season. , A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship. , A cream background indicates an event which was part of the pre- war European Championship. , Coordinates : 50°26′13″N 5°58′08″E ﻿ / ﻿ 50.437°N 5.969°E ﻿ / 50.437; 5.969  The Italian Grand Prix ( Gran Premio d'Italia ) is one of the longest running events on the Formula One calendar. The Italian Grand Prix was also one of the inaugural Formula One championship races in 1950, and has been held every year since then. The only other championship race for which this is true is the British Grand Prix , and the only other inaugural F1 races that are still on the calendar are the Monaco Grand Prix and the Belgian Grand Prix . Every Formula One Italian Grand Prix since 1950 has been held at Monza except in 1980 , when it was held at Imola . The Italian Grand Prix counted toward the European Championship from 1935 to 1938. It was designated the European Grand Prix seven times between 1923 and 1967, when this title was an honorary designation given each year to one grand prix race in Europe. , , , Motor racing has always been extremely popular in Italy, the first Italian Grand Prix motor racing championship took place on 4 September 1921 at a 10.7 mile (17.3 km) circuit near Brescia .  However, the race is more closely associated with the course at Monza , a racing facility just outside of the northern city of Milan , which was built in 1922 in time for that year's race, and has been the location for most of the races over the years. , The Autodromo Nazionale Monza was completed in 1922 and was just the third permanent autodrome in the world at that time; Brooklands in England and Indianapolis in the United States were the two others. Motor racing pioneers Vincenzo Lancia and Felice Nazzaro laid the last two bricks at Monza. The circuit was 10 km (6.25 miles) long, with a flat banked section and a road circuit combined into one. It was fast, and always provided excitement. The 1923 race included one of Harry A. Miller 's rare European appearances with his single seat "American Miller 122" driven by Count Louis Zborowski of Chitty Chitty Bang Bang fame. In the 1928 race Italians Emilio Materassi and Giulio Foresti in a Bugatti, tangled on the pit straight. One of the front wheels of Materassi's overtaking Talbot touched one of the rear wheels of the Bugatti. Materassi swerved left, cleared a 10-foot wide ditch and ploughed into the unprotected grandstand opposite the pits, killing himself and 27 spectators and injuring another 26 It was the worst accident in motor racing history and would remain so until the 1955 24 Hours of Le Mans . The Italian Grand Prix went on a three year hiatus until the 1931 race was won by Giuseppe Campari and Tazio Nuvolari , sharing an Alfa Romeo. The race was something of an endurance race in those days; it took ten hours to complete the race. The great Nuvolari won again in a shortened 1932 race . , In 1933 disaster struck again. Three top drivers were killed during three heat races. There was a reported patch of oil on the south banking that had come from a Duesenberg, driven by Count Carlo Felice Trossi , and Giuseppe Campari in a Ferrari-entered Alfa Romeo and his protege Baconin Borzacchini in a Maserati were already battling ferociously; and Borzacchini and Campari went through the south banking on the first lap, wheel to wheel. Borzacchini went through the oily patch, lost control, spun wildly and the Maserati then flipped multiple times, and Borzacchini was pinned underneath his car, not having been thrown out. While this happened, Campari swerved to avoid him, and went up and off the banking and crashed into trees situated right next to the track. Campari was killed instantly, and Borzacchini died later that day in a Monza hospital. , Prior to the third heat, there was a drivers meeting to discuss the oil patch and it was cleaned up. on the eighth lap, Polish aristocrat Count Stanislas Czaykowski was on the south banking when his Bugatti's engine blew up, a fuel line broke, the fuel caught fire after touching the very hot front section of the Bugatti and the burning fuel sprayed onto Czaykowski. Blinded by the smoke and flames on him, he went up and flew off the banking- at the same spot where Campari and Borzacchini had crashed. The Polish driver burned to death. Italian Luigi Fagioli was declared the winner of the event. , Enzo Ferrari , who had been close to Campari and Borzacchini; the former deciding to defect from Ferrari's team to Maserati, became hardened by this tragedy. Today, racing historians conclude that the events of this race marked a watershed, notably for Enzo Ferrari. It was the end to the joyful era of racing and the beginning of a harsher new age. Safety in those days was completely non-existent. The circuit's condition was virtually identical of that to an ordinary town and country road, except instead of the surface being made of dirt, it was made of concrete and bricks. Spectators often stood very close to or even next to the track and they had no protection of any kind other than common sense.  , After the disastrous 1933 race, something had to be done to Monza. There were chicanes added at certain points on the circuit and only most of the road circuit and part of the high speed oval was used. These races were at a time when Mercedes and Auto Union became involved in motor racing; the German Silver Arrows won all of these races; with superstar Rudolf Caracciola winning in 1934 and in 1937 when the Italian Grand Prix was held at a street circuit in Livorno. 1938 saw a return to Monza, which was won by Nuvolari driving a mid-engined Auto Union, and the banking had been dismantled after the race was held. In 1939 World War II broke out and the Italian Grand Prix did not return until 1947. , 1947 saw the Italian Grand Prix being held at a fairgrounds park in the city of Milan (not far from Monza), and this race was won by Italian Carlo Felice Trossi driving an Alfa Romeo. Italian Giovanni Bracco went off the road in his Delage and crashed into a group of spectators, killing five. This venue was never used again for racing, and 1948 saw it being held in Valentino Park , a public park in Turin . The 1949 race returned to Monza where it stayed for the next 30 years. , Monza's banking had been abandoned and only the road circuit was used, which had been modified slightly. The long, fluid final corner was now two 90-degree corners. 1949 saw Italian new-boy Alberto Ascari , son of the late 1924 Italian Grand Prix winner Antonio Ascari , win in his Ferrari; Enzo Ferrari was now building his own cars instead of running Alfa Romeos. 1950 saw the new Formula One Championship being established. The race and the first championship was won by Giuseppe "Nino" Farina , driving a supercharged Alfa Romeo 158 . 1951 saw Ascari win again, after the competitive Alfas of Farina and Argentine Juan Manuel Fangio ran into engine problems. 1952 saw Ascari complete his domination of that season. 1953 Fangio won in a Maserati; although Ascari had already won the championship at the Swiss Grand Prix. 1954 turned out to be an interesting race; as up-and-comer Stirling Moss in a Maserati passed both Fangio's Mercedes and Ascari's Ferrari. The furious pace saw the retirement of Moss and Ascari and Fangio went onto win while Moss pushed his Maserati 250F over the line. , After the 1954 running, work began on entirely revamping the circuit. New facilities were built and a new corner, the Parabolica, was built in place of the double right-handed sequence right before the pits Extra track used for a short course was eliminated. The biggest change was the reconstruction of the new Monza banking. Built on top of where the almost flat, narrow original banking was, these huge concrete bankings, called the sopraelevata curves, were built in the same shape as the original banking had been. This course was combined with the road course for the 1955 event , which was won by Fangio and was the last race contested by a full-fledged Mercedes factory effort in Formula One until 2010. 1956 saw an exciting race, with championship contenders Fangio, Briton Peter Collins (both in Ferraris) and Frenchman Jean Behra in a Maserati fight over the win. Stirling Moss was already out of championship contention; and Fangio retired with a broken steering arm. The Ferrari team called for Italian Luigi Musso to hand his car over to Fangio. Musso ignored the order so Collins came in and handed his car and his championship chances to Fangio. Behra had retired early with a magneto problem in his own car and took over his teammate Umberto Maglioli 's car; but he retired that car, too. Musso ended up leading after Moss ran out of fuel coming through Vialone. Moss was able to refuel his car and storm off after Musso and eventually the Italian retired with steering problems, and Moss, with Fangio catching him up fast, stormed round the track to take victory. Fangio took secnd and his fourth drivers' championship. , 1957 saw the organizers choose to use the road circuit only, as the rough, poorly constructed banking had caused problems for the Ferrari cars the year before. Moss won again in a Vanwall, and Briton Tony Brooks won next year's race, and Moss won the 1959 event in a Cooper-Climax. 1960 , however was not so straightforward. Ferrari with their front-engined cars, had lost out to the advanced mid-engined British cars. Seeing an opportunity, the Italian organizers decided to re-include the banking with the road circuit, making Monza even faster and more in favor to the powerful Ferraris. The British teams were unhappy as they cited the fragility of the banking, which was extremely rough and was supported by stilts rather than earth surface; and that it was too dangerous for Formula One cars. The British teams boycotted the race, so Ferrari had no competition. American Phil Hill took victory, in what was the last victory for a front-engined Formula One car. 1961 saw a return to the combined circuit, but it was to see yet another tragedy. Two Ferrari drivers, Hill and German count Wolfgang von Trips , came into the race with a chance at winning the championship. Fighting for fourth place while Hill was leading and while von Trips approached the Parabolica, the German moved over into the path of Briton Jim Clark and the two collided. Von Trips crashed into an embankement next to the road and then went flying into a crowd of people standing on the embankment. Von Trips was thrown out of his car and was killed, as were 14 spectators. Clark survived but was hounded by Italian police for months after the incident. Hill won the race and the championship by one point. The race was not stopped, allegedly to assist rescue work for the injured. , 1962 saw a return to the road circuit only and the banking was never used again for Formula One. It still stands, but in decrepit condition. Briton Graham Hill won the race, and would go on to win the driver's championship in South Africa soon after. 1963 saw an attempted use of the extremely fast full circuit again, and the drivers ran the course during Friday practice but the concrete banking was so rough and bumpy that cars were being mechanically torn apart. It was feared that there would be no finishers for the actual race itself. Briton Bob Anderson's Lola crashed after losing a wheel on the banking (he was uninjured); the drivers then threatened to leave unless they raced on the road circuit only, which is what happened. Jim Clark won the race in a Lotus. Ferrari driver John Surtees won in 1964 , and Briton Jackie Stewart won his first of 27 Grand Prix victories in 1965 , driving for BRM. Against team orders, he fought hard with his teammate Graham Hill, and Hill made a mistake at the Parabolica and Stewart was in command; this was all to the chagrin of team boss Tony Rudd . 1966 saw Italian Ludovico Scarfiotti win, and no other Italian has won the race since. 1967 was to be a race of interest and was to produce the first of three close finishes on the fast Monza circuit over the next four years. Surtees, now driving for Honda, battled with Australian Jack Brabham, and Surtees won the race by two-tenths of a second; and Clark, who had problems at the beginning of the race and lost a whole lap, stormed around the circuit, equalled his pole position time and unlapped himself to take the lead- but his fuel pump broke and he coasted over the line to finish third. 1969 saw four drivers; Stewart, Austrian Jochen Rindt , Frenchman Jean-Pierre Beltoise and New Zealander Bruce McLaren battle right down to the line. Stewart came out on top and beat Rindt by eight-hundredths of a second. The four drivers were all within two tenths of a second of each other. With this win, Stewart won his first of three championships. 1970 saw Rindt's fatal crash during qualifying at the wheel of his rear wing-less Lotus. He would become the only posthuomous world champion, after Ferrari driver Jacky Ickx failed to overhaul Rindt. Ickx's teammate Clay Regazzoni won the race, which saw 28 lead changes. 1971 was to see the third close finish in four years. Briton Peter Gethin , Swede Ronnie Peterson , Frenchman François Cevert , Briton Mike Hailwood and New Zealander Howden Ganley battled for the lead all race. On the last lap, Peterson got the inside line for the Parabolica, but Gethin got in front going alongside Peterson through the long right-hand corner, and beat Peterson to the checkered flag by the slimmest of margins; one-one hundredth of a second. Cevert and Hailwood finished within two-tenths and Ganley was half a second behind. , 1972 saw changes to Monza. The 1971 race was the fastest Formula One race ever at that point in time. It was really just a bunch of straights and fast corners and F1 cars had become increasingly advanced and much faster, and the drivers were constantly slipstreaming each other around the circuit. Chicanes were put at the end of the pit straight and at the Vialone curve; Brazilian Emerson Fittipaldi won that race and his first drivers' championship at only 25 years of age. His chief rival Jackie Stewart went out at the start with a broken gearbox. In 1973 , Stewart punctured a tire early in the race and went into the pits to have it changed; he came out in 20th place and finished fourth in the race while Fittipaldi finished second; this was enough for Stewart to win his third and final drivers' championship. 1974 saw further changes with the Vialone chicane changed and renamed Variante Ascari, which was the place where Alberto Ascari was killed in 1955 testing a Ferrari sportscar. Like the year before, Peterson won and Fittipaldi finished second, now driving for McLaren. 1975 , however, was an event to remember. Ferrari, which had regrouped completely under the leadership of Luca di Montezemolo , reached the high point of its resurgence. The Ferrari camp was feeling relaxed while rising star and championship leader Niki Lauda was leading the drivers' championship, and the team was leading the constructor's championship. Fittipaldi and Argentine Carlos Reutemann had to win in order to have a chance at staying in the championship chase. When the race started, Lauda's teammate Clay Regazzoni took the lead, with Lauda following; and Fittipaldi stormed round the circuit in an effort to catch the two Ferraris. Fittipaldi passed Lauda for second but this did not matter as Lauda only needed fifth to secure the drivers' title. Regazzoni took victory, followed by Fittipaldi and Lauda, who won his first drivers' title and Ferrari also won the constructor's championship at the same event. , 1976 saw further changes to Monza's layout. Two chicanes, called Variante Rettifilo were installed just before the Curva Grande, and another chicane was installed just before the Lesmo bends. Lauda, who had come back to racing only six weeks after his horrendous crash at the Nürburgring; finished fourth while Peterson won. 1977 saw Italian-American Mario Andretti win in a Lotus; but the next year's race was to add another page of tragedy to Monza's history. Peterson had re-joined Lotus at the beginning of the 1978 season and had challenged his teammate Andretti all the way. Peterson had crashed his car in practice, and had to use Andretti's spare car, not a comfortable fit for the tall Swede, in contrast to the diminutive American. As the race started, there was a huge, fiery multi-car pile-up on the approach to the first corner. One of the victims was Peterson; his car slammed head-on into the Armco barriers and had caught fire. Instead of the ill-equipped marshals, Briton James Hunt , with the help of Frenchman Patrick Depailler and Regazzoni ran towards Peterson's aid and pulled him out of the burning Lotus. Peterson suffered severe leg injuries, and he died from embolism complications a day later. With Peterson's retirement from the race, Andretti won the drivers' championship. The race itself was an interesting one; during the parade lap South African Jody Scheckter lost a wheel from his Wolf at the second Lesmo curve and hit an Armco barrier right next to the track. Andretti, Hunt, Lauda, Fittipaldi and Reutemann went to inspect the damage, and they refused to start until it had been repaired; and it was repaired in time; although the race started well after it was supposed to. The cars were shown the green light while the back half of the field was still in motion (this often happened at Monza and it had happened during the first start); and due to the visible excitement of the start official Andretti and Canadian Gilles Villeneuve jumped the start and were penalized a minute; Lauda went on to take victory in his Alfa-powered Brabham in a shortened race distance; it was getting dark by the time the checkered flag was shown to the Austrian driver. 1979 saw changes to Monza, run off areas were added to the Curva Grande and Lesmo corners and the track was upgraded. Scheckter, now driving for Ferrari, won the race and the drivers' championship. , In 1979, it was announced that the Autodromo Dino Ferrari, also known as Imola, would host the Italian Grand Prix for 1980 while Monza underwent a major upgrade, including building a new pit complex. The Imola circuit had been used for a non-championship event in 1979, and this running of the Italian GP was won by Nelson Piquet. , The Italian Grand Prix returned to Monza for 1981, and it has stayed there ever since. The Imola circuit was not to leave Formula One, it hosted the San Marino Grand Prix from 1981 to 2006. The 1981 Italian Grand Prix was won by rising star Alain Prost , and that race saw Briton John Watson have a huge accident at the second Lesmo Curve which also took out Italian Michele Alboreto. Watson was uninjured in his carbon-fibre McLaren. 1982 was won by Prost's teammate Rene Arnoux; and Prost also won the exciting 1985 event, this time driving a McLaren. Prost's championship rivals Alboreto (now driving a Ferrari) and Finn Keke Rosberg in a Williams both retired. 1988 saw a memorable win; as McLaren had won every race up to the Italian Grand Prix; Prost had gone out with engine problems and his teammate Ayrton Senna had crashed into a backmarker with 2 laps to go- and Austrian Gerhard Berger in a Ferrari took victory, followed by Alboreto to make it a Ferrari 1-2. This was particularly memorable because Enzo Ferrari had died a month before this event. 1989 saw Prost win after the Honda engine in Senna's McLaren expired; but Senna took victory the following year. 1991 saw a battle between Senna and the two Williams drivers of Nigel Mansell and Riccardo Patrese . Mansell won, Senna finished 2nd and Patrese went out with gearbox problems. Senna won again in 1992, and 1993 saw Williams drivers Alain Prost and Damon Hill battle hard, and while leading, Prost's engine failed and Hill went on to take victory. , In response to the Imola tragedies in 1994, the second Lesmo curve was slowed down. 1996 saw Michael Schumacher win for Ferrari, and 1999 saw championship leader Mika Hakkinen crash and the Finn, false to temperament, went behind a few bushes in the circuit and broke down crying. 2000 saw further changes to the circuit, which have stayed since. The Variante Rettifilo was made into a two corner sequence instead of a 3 corner sequence. The race that year started off tragically, as an accident during the start at the Variante della Roggia resulted in a marshal being struck in the head and chest by a loose wheel from German Heinz-Harald Frentzen 's Jordan. 33-year old Paolo Ghislimberti was given a heart massage at the scene, but later died from his injuries. On a more positive note, the decade also started off with a romp of Ferrari victories, winning in 2000 and 2002-2004. The 2002 race saw the fastest ever qualifying lap, set by Juan Pablo Montoya in a Williams at 259.827 km/h. , After winning the 2006 Italian Grand Prix , Michael Schumacher announced his retirement from Formula 1 racing at the end of the 2006 season. Kimi Räikkönen replaced him at Ferrari from the start of the 2007 season. At the 2008 Italian Grand Prix , Sebastian Vettel became the youngest driver in history to win a Formula One Grand Prix. Aged 21 years and 74 days, Vettel broke the record set by Fernando Alonso at the 2003 Hungarian Grand Prix by 317 days as he won in wet conditions at Monza. Vettel led for the majority of the Grand Prix and crossed the finish line 12.5 seconds ahead of McLaren's Heikki Kovalainen . Earlier in the weekend, he had already become the youngest polesitter, after setting the fastest times in both Q2 and Q3 qualifying stages. His win also gave him the record of youngest podium-finisher. Vettel also won in 2011, after a spectacular pass at the Curva Grande, passing Fernando Alonso on the outside of the big, long curve. , Uncertainty grew over the fact that Monza would continue to host the race as Rome had signed a deal to host Formula One from 2012. On 18 March 2010 however, Bernie Ecclestone and the Monza track managers signed a deal which meant that the race will be held there until at least 2016.  , The Italian Grand Prix in recent years has been labelled as a jinx to the winning driver. For 7 straight races from 2004-2010, no driver was able to win the Italian Grand Prix and the championship in the same year. Over the past two decades, only three drivers have won the Italian Grand Prix and gone on to win the world championship in the same year: Ayrton Senna in 1990 , Michael Schumacher in 2000 and 2003 and Sebastian Vettel in 2011 . A total of 12 Italian drivers have won the Italian Grand Prix; 10 before World War II and 3 when it was part of the Formula One world championship. Alberto Ascari won the race 3 times (once before Formula One and twice during the Formula One championship). Elio de Angelis and Riccardo Patrese both won the San Marino Grand Prix in 1985 and 1990, which was held not in the small principlaity, but at Imola near Bologna in Italy. Michael Schumacher has won it 5 times and Nelson Piquet won 4 times. Ferrari have won their home Grand Prix 19 times. , A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship. , A cream background indicates an event which was part of the pre- war European Championship. , Coordinates : 45°37′01″N 9°16′57″E ﻿ / ﻿ 45.61694°N 9.28250°E ﻿ / 45.61694; 9.28250  The Singapore Grand Prix is a motor race on the calendar of the FIA Formula One World Championship. The event takes place in Singapore on the Marina Bay Street Circuit and was the inaugural F1 night race   and the first street circuit in Asia.  Spaniard Fernando Alonso won the first Formula One edition of the Grand Prix, driving for the Renault team. The Singapore Grand Prix will remain on the F1 calendar through at least 2017, after race organizers signed a contract extension with Formula One Management on the eve of the 2012 event.  Every running of the race since 2008 has featured at least one safety car . , , , First organised in 1961, the race was initially known as the Orient Year Grand Prix .  The following year, the race was renamed the Malaysian Grand Prix .  After Singapore attained its independence in 1965, the race at the Thomson Road circuit was renamed to the Singapore Grand Prix. The event was discontinued after 1973 and a variety of reasons have been suggested, including an increase in traffic, the very high danger and unsuitability of the track for racing, the inconvenience of having to close roads for the event and fatal accidents during the 1972 and 1973 races.  , An agreement for a five-year deal was signed by Singapore GP Pte Ltd, the Singapore Tourism Board and Bernie Ecclestone .  In November 2007 it was announced that the telecommunications company SingTel would sponsor the event, and also they televised the show on Channel 5 called SingTel Grid Girls . The official name of the event became the Formula 1 SingTel Singapore Grand Prix.  The race was co-funded by the Government of Singapore , footing 60% of the total bill, or S$90 million, out of a total tab of S$150 million.  , Around 110,000 tickets were made available for the country's first Formula One race. Corporate hospitality suites and packages went on sale at the end November 2007, three-day passes to the public went on sale in February 2008. Single-day passes went on sale a month later.  The event went on to achieve a full sell-out for all of its tickets.  , The 2008 race hosted the famous Amber Lounge after party and in 2010 Singapore became the second location to host the Amber Lounge Fashion show.  , The first race held at the new Marina Bay Street Circuit was the 15th round of the 2008 FIA Formula One World Championship, and was also the first night-time event in Formula One history.  The timing of the night event meant that it could be broadcast live at a convenient time for European TV audiences.  The track was also illuminated by a series of projectors which adapt their output to match the shape of the course.  The race was won by Fernando Alonso driving for the Renault team, however that result has since been tarnished by controversy . , For the 2009 race , the circuit was reprofiled slightly, including modifications to turns 1, 2 and 3 to aid overtaking, and also at turn 10 where high kerbs caused many accidents in 2008 .  , On 22 September 2012, the AP reported that Bernie Ecclestone and the Singapore Grand Prix agreed that the Grand Prix will remain on the Formula One calendar through the year of 2017.  , For the 2013 race, it was announced that the 10th turn of the track, the "Singapore Sling" chicane, will be reconfigured so the cars will have to navigate a flowing left-hander before accelerating towards the Anderson Bridge.  , On 15 April 2014, it was announced that Singapore Airlines would sponsor the Singapore Grand Prix, starting from that year.  , Events which were not part of the Formula One World Championship are indicated by a pink background. , Before the first modern race took place, Malaysian Sports Minister Azalina Othman Said said that the proximity of the Sepang International Circuit in Malaysia, which hosts the Malaysian Grand Prix and is about 300 kilometres from Singapore, would create unhealthy competition.  The Malaysian Deputy Youth and Sports Minister Liow Tiong Lai stated that the Malaysian Government is unconcerned about possible competition from Singapore.  , Bird's eye view of the Marina Bay Street Circuit , with construction of the Integrated Resort in the background , Same view of the circuit, circa 2012 , Esplanade stretch of the Marina Bay Street Circuit , Kimi Räikkönen driving for Ferrari , Fernando Alonso and Heikki Kovalainen of Renault and McLaren respectively , The Marina Bay circuit with the "Singapore Sling" chicane used (2008-2012).  The Japanese Grand Prix ( 日本グランプリ , Nihon-guranpuri ? ) is a race in the calendar of the FIA Formula One World Championship . Historically, Japan has been one of the last races of the season, and as such the Japanese Grand Prix has been the venue for many title-deciding races, with 13 World Champions being crowned over the 30 World Championship Japanese Grands Prix that have been hosted. , The first two Japanese Grands Prix in 1976 and 1977 were held at the Fuji Speedway, before Japan was taken off the calendar. It returned in 1987 at Suzuka, which hosted the Grand Prix exclusively for 20 years and gained a reputation as one of the most challenging F1 circuits. In 1994 and 1995, Japan also hosted the Pacific Grand Prix at the TI Circuit , making Japan one of only seven countries to host more than one Grand Prix in the same season (the others being Great Britain , France , Spain , Germany , Italy and the USA ). In 2007 the Grand Prix moved back to the newly redesigned Fuji Speedway .  After a second race at Fuji in 2008, the race returned to Suzuka in 2009, as part of an altenating agreement between the owners of Fuji Speedway and Suzuka Circuit, perennial rivals Toyota and Honda . However, in July 2009, Toyota announced it would not host the race at Fuji Speedway in 2010 and beyond due to a downturn in the global economy,  and so the Japanese Grand Prix was held at Suzuka instead. Suzuka has hosted the Japanese Grand Prix every year since 2009. , , , The first Japanese Grand Prix was run as a non-championship Formula 1 race at the Suzuka Circuit 80 kilometres (50 mi) south west of Nagoya in May 1963. This marked the beginning of motor racing in earnest in Japan. For the next 11 years, however; the non-championship Grand Prix was run at the Fuji Speedway , 40 miles (64 km) west of Yokohama and 66 miles (106 km) west of the Japanese capital of Tokyo . The circuit had a banked corner called Daiichi and was the scene of many fatal accidents. It was then run as a number of disciplines of motorsports, particularly Formula 2, sports cars and Can-Am -type sprint racing. , The first Formula 1 Japanese Grand Prix, in 1976, was held at the very fast 2.7 mile Fuji Speedway, minus the banking. The race was to become famous for the title decider between James Hunt and Niki Lauda as it was held during monsoon conditions. Lauda, who had survived a near-fatal crash at the German Grand Prix earlier in the season, withdrew from the race stating that his life was more important than the championship, as did Brazilians Emerson Fittipaldi and Carlos Pace . The torrential rain had stopped, and after a botched pit stop that put him down to 5th, Hunt drove very hard and climbed up to and finished 3rd, so this meant that Hunt scored the 4 points he needed to win the title by the slender margin of one point over Lauda. American Mario Andretti won the race in his 2nd career win and first for Lotus in front of Frenchman Patrick Depailler in a 6-wheeled Tyrrell. Hunt returned the next year to win the second Japanese Grand Prix, but a collision between Gilles Villeneuve and Ronnie Peterson during the race saw Villeneuve's Ferrari somersault into a restricted area, killing two spectators.  Although originally scheduled for an April slot in the 1978 season (which was cancelled), the race did not reappear on the Formula One calendar for another decade, and the race did not return to Fuji for an even greater time. , On Formula 1's return to Japan in 1987, the Grand Prix found a new venue at the redesigned and revamped Suzuka Circuit . The circuit, set inside a funfair , was designed by Dutchman John Hugenholtz and owned by Honda , who used it as a test track. Most notable initially for its layout—Suzuka is the only figure-eight race track to appear on the F1 calendar. The demanding and fast Japanese circuit became very popular among drivers and fans; and it was to see some of the most dramatic and memorable moments in Formula One history. , The first event in 1987 was already a classic. It immediately it saw another World Title decided, as Nigel Mansell injured himself when he crashed his Williams-Honda heavily in practice at the Snake Esses and consequently could not start the race due to an aggravating an old back injury he received in his Formula Ford days, effectively handing the title to his team-mate Nelson Piquet ; the 3rd and final title of his career. Austrian Gerhard Berger won the race for Ferrari, their first victory since 1985. , Suzuka will always be chiefly remembered, however, for the legendary feud between Frenchman Alain Prost and Brazilian Ayrton Senna . This acrimonious and long battle reached unprecedented heights of controversy and media coverage; this struggle was between two men who were both considered to be by far the best drivers in Formula One at that time. , The 1988 race was a championship decider between Senna and Prost- who were McLaren teammates that year. Senna came in with a greater chance of winning the championship, as the points system in those days counted the best 11 results; Senna had retired from one more Grand Prix than Prost had and had been slightly less consistent than the Frenchman; this was actually to the Brazilian's advantage; the way the points system worked in those days meant that there was more room for him to score points. McLaren also had obtained superior and fuel-efficient Honda engines from Williams, and had a car that was far better than any of the others, and they had won every race in the season so far except the Italian Grand Prix. At the start, Senna made a very bad start and dropped to 14th, while Prost took the lead, followed by Gerhard Berger in a Ferrari (who had won the Italian Grand Prix). It then began to rain, and wet-weather specialist Senna stormed around the track, setting a number of fastest laps and passing car after car until he caught Berger in 2nd and started to catch Prost rapidly. The Frenchman's gearbox was malfunctioning, and the Brazilian caught and passed Prost while the Frenchman was delayed by consistent backmarker Andrea De Cesaris. Senna won the race and his 1st driver's championship and Prost finished 2nd. Prost had scored more points in total than Senna, but the Frenchman could only score 3 more points because he had finished 1st and 2nd in every race so far except two (13 finishes in total, only the best 11 results counted), and if he had won (9 points), one of his 2nd-place finishes (6 points) would not have counted towards his countable points tally. Prost ended up scoring 105 points in total to Senna's 94- but only 87 of Prost's points counted, and 90 of Senna's points counted, so Senna won the driver's championship. , The 1989 race was a highly anticipated race, and even with new regulations banning turbo-charged engines, the McLaren-Honda combination was still dominant- they had won 10 of 14 races so far in the season. This race turned out to be one of the most memorable in the sport's history. Prost and Senna, once again McLaren teammates for 1989, were both embroiled in an acrimonious personal feud that had started at the second race of the season and their relationship was, come the race weekend- at such a low point it was virtually non-existent. Very unusual for teammates of a racing team, there was almost zero communication going on between Prost and Senna- it was to the degree where the McLaren team were almost running as 2 different teams- with 4 to 5 times more people around Senna than Prost. This was because Senna had a closer relationship with the Honda engineers than Prost; Senna's popularity with the Japanese public thanks to his flat-out driving style benefited Honda in many different ways; and McLaren wanted a long-term partnership with Honda, as their engines were better than all the others. Both Senna and Prost went into the race weekend each knowing what the stakes were. Prost was 16 points ahead of Senna, and the Brazilian was facing nearly insurmountable odds- he had to win at Suzuka to stand any chance of staying in contention of winning the championship going into the next race- the Australian Grand Prix , and he had to win that race, too. 9 points were received for 1st place, which was enough to beat Prost by 2 points- granted that the consistent Frenchman didn't finish either race; something that seemed very unlikely. Senna qualified on pole position 1.5 seconds ahead of Prost who was already working on his race setup in qualifying. Senna's set up meant he was faster around corners, while Prost opted for a set up that made him faster on the straights. , Come race day, the two McLarens were on the front row of the grid, and both McLaren drivers' emotions were running very high. As the starting lights flashed to green, Prost made an excellent start and jumped into the fast first corner ahead of Senna, and this was to start a race-long battle for top honors. The two McLaren drivers immediately started to pull away from the rest of the field, with Prost and Senna setting the pace at the highest possible level they could muster. If Senna won with Prost 2nd, the Frenchman would take the title. But Prost, in the awful emotional state he was in, was in no mood to lose a race to Senna again. Prost was known as a mild-mannered character who had a smooth, clean driving style; but during this race he was furiously throwing his car around the circuit and taking chances he often would not take. As they had been doing in a number of races where they ran closely together (particularly that year's German Grand Prix ), Prost and Senna were driving as fast as they knew how, like men possessed. Then, Prost began to pull away from Senna. Once they had stopped for tyres, Prost's pit stop was one second faster than Senna's, and the Frenchman again had the advantage. But because he had stopped earlier than Senna, his Goodyear tyre rubber would wear more, so he decided to conserve his tyres and run at a slightly slower pace, and then Senna set fastest lap after fastest lap in a furious effort to catch the Frenchman. Senna had finally caught up to Prost, and Prost responded by keeping the Brazilian's pace- they drove on their own personal limits and Senna tried on a number of occasions to pass Prost. But on lap 47, going through the ultra-fast 130R corner, the Brazilian attempted an ambitious pass going into the Casio chicane. Senna was in an awkward position to pass and tried to shove his way past Prost- but the Frenchman decided to be true to words he had said to Senna and McLaren boss Ron Dennis - he would not leave the door open as he had before and give up the position simply for McLaren to be embarrassed by a double retirement. And Prost did exactly that- as he turned into the right handed turn that made up the first part of the chicane, he turned into Senna, and the Frenchman's car hit the Brazilian's car and the two cars were interlocked and both slid off the track and up the chicane's escape road, the Honda V10 engines in both cars stalling. , Prost and Senna were both beached and Prost got out of his car promptly, knowing he had won the championship whilst Senna waved towards a group of Suzuka's track marshals, who ran up to the two interlocked cars. So they could separate the two cars, the marshals pushed Senna's car backwards onto the track, which put it in a dangerous position. The marshals then pushed his car forwards while Senna bump-started the engine, and he drove off. Even after being stalled for more than 30 seconds, the furious pace he and Prost had been running at put them both so far ahead of the rest of the field that Senna was still leading the race comfortably in front of Benetton driver Alessandro Nannini. Senna's front nose cone was damaged and going through the Degner bend, it came off; and he pitted to have it changed. Nannini had passed Senna while the Brazilian was in the pits- and after he stormed out of the pits, Senna drove as furiously as he had before, and within 2 laps while making up 2.5 seconds a lap on Nannini he caught and passed the Italian cleanly at the Casio chicane. Senna crossed the finish line first, but the podium ceremony had been delayed. There was a meeting between Senna, Prost, the McLaren management and FIA officials including the very unpopular FIA and FISA president Jean-Marie Balestre . It was thought that Senna was going to be disqualified for receiving external non-team assistance, which was against the rules- but that rule had a trump card. That "card" (rule) read that if a driver was deemed to be in a dangerous position, they could be push started. But much to almost the entire Formula One paddock's astonishment, it was deemed that Senna was to be disqualified for cutting the chicane and bypassing the marked track after making his way up to the lead and being first on the track. Cutting the chicane was in effect bypassing the track to gain an advantage- and this was illegal. But this rule was not enforced and generally ignored in those days if a driver was negatively affected in terms of where they stood in the race- which Senna was not. Nevertheless, the Brazilian Senna was infuriated by the decision- and he later said that he struggled to cope for a long time with what happened. Nannini was handed the race victory as a result of Senna's disqualification, and McLaren appealed Senna's disqualification- which was not only denied by Balestre and the FIA but he was handed a $100,000 fine and a six-month suspension, both of which were eventually rescinded. Prost had won the driver's championship for the 3rd time- but this was not official until Senna's retirement from the Australian Grand Prix 2 weeks later, before which McLaren's appeal had been denied. , The 1990 event proved to be just as controversial as the 1989 event. Senna and Prost were once again 1st and 2nd in the championship- the two men had won 37 of the past 46 Formula One championship races. But the roles had been reversed. Senna was 9 points ahead of Prost in the championship, and the championship situation for Prost was similar to Senna's had been in the previous year. As shown in a video of the pre-race drivers' briefing,  the drivers were discussing what was to be done if a car was in a dangerous position at the Casio Chicane. Senna was appalled at what he saw as a ridiculous interpretation of badly thought-out rules- and he walked out of the meeting as it was taking place. Senna qualified on pole position, three-tenths ahead of Prost, now driving for Ferrari, who had the next most competitive package that year behind McLaren. Senna requested to change the grid positions in order move pole position to the cleaner left side of the road, where the racing line was. This was granted, but Balestre stopped this and reverted the grid positions back to where they originally were, which meant pole position would be on the dirtier right side of the track, where all the bits of tire rubber that had been thrown from the tires by the Formula One cars, which meant he was off the racing line and worse, it would be more difficult for Senna to make a better start. Frustrated and angry, Senna mimicked Prost's statement of the previous year saying he would not move over if Prost attempted to overtake in the first corner — Senna started at pole, with Prost second (albeit on the racing line). Prost got ahead of Senna- but the more powerful Honda engine in Senna's McLaren meant that he was able to make up a little bit of ground. Prost moved over to take the racing line, but Senna, too far behind Prost to pass him, went for it- and as a result he violently hit the back of Prost's Ferrari. The Frenchman's car had lost his front wing and his car rotated in circles uncontrollably while Senna went straight on and both drivers sped through the gravel traps at 160 mph (260 km/h) and crashed into the tyre wall at the end of the run-off area. Senna and Prost were both unhurt, and neither driver bothered to check to see if the other was okay. This accident meant that Senna won his second world driver's championship; Prost's retirement meant he could not overhaul Senna's point total. The crash looked somewhat dubious, and nothing was done to Senna by the FIA; because they had done nothing to Prost in 1989 for crashing to Senna, they could not do anything to Senna that wouldn't seriously compromise their authoritative powers handing Senna his second world championship; Prost's retirement meant he could not overhaul Senna's point total. Furious and disgusted, Prost later described Senna as "a man without value". Both drivers have been accused of crashing into the other deliberately and thus the two situations as well as their comments after both incidents have tainted both driver's reputations in the eyes of most but die hard fans. Benetton driver Nelson Piquet won his first race in 3 years after Gerhard Berger went off and Nigel Mansell 's Ferrari failed in the pits after a pit stop, and Piquet's new teammate Roberto Moreno finished 2nd. , 1991 was yet again the showdown for the driver's championship, and it saw Senna and this time Mansell in a competitive but rather unreliable Williams battle for the driver's championship. Prost did not win a race in his uncompetitive Ferrari that year and it turned out to be his last race for the Scuderia that year; he was fired from the team after the race while describing the 643 as having handling like "a truck". This was the last straw for Ferrari; as Prost had been making unsavory comments about the Italian team for some time. The race started, and Mansell went off at the first corner on lap 10, and Senna won his 3rd driver's championship in 4 seasons. Senna let his teammate Gerhard Berger through to win as a "thank you" gesture for his support all season. But during the post-race press conference, Senna then admitted that his actions in 1990 were indeed intentional, and he then called Balestre and the rest of the governing body "stupid people". He admitted that he did what he did the year before because of his refusal to put up with Balestre's continuously illegal manipulation of the driver's championship. 1992 was the first year, which the Japanese Grand Prix at Suzuka did not determine the championship- Mansell had already won it 4 races before in Hungary with his all-dominant Williams. He retired from the race, as did Senna, and Mansell's teammate Riccardo Patrese took his only victory that year. 1993 was an interesting event; Senna took the lead from Alain Prost (who had won his 4th driver's title at the previous race ) and kept it; although changeable weather conditions played to Senna's advantage- who was known to be exceptional in wet-weather conditions. He was harassed, however, by Briton newcomer Eddie Irvine, who attempted to pass Senna and unlap himself while battling with Prost's British teammate Damon Hill . Senna won his 40th race in his career from Prost, but he wasn't all smiles. He sought out Irvine, had a heated discussion with the Northern Irishman and punched him in the side of the head; and then Senna went on live television for post-race interviews, and used profanity on the live recording in frustration at Irvine, other driver's bad behavior on the track and at the media, who he claimed were irresponsible for sensationalizing some of the driver's dangerous on-track behavior. , By 1994, Prost had retired and Senna was killed at the San Marino Grand Prix , and the Japanese GP that year saw Hill and German Michael Schumacher battle for the driver's championship. Hill crucially won the race ahead of Schumacher; Suzuka was hammered by a torrential downpour which made conditions very difficult for Hill as Schumacher was an acknowledged specialist in wet-weather conditions. 1995 saw an incredible drive from French-Italian Jean Alesi on dry slick tyres on damp conditions. It had rained at the start; but the track was drying. Alesi went into the pits on lap seven, around the time everyone else came in. The French driver began to lap Suzuka in his Ferrari 5 seconds faster than anyone else, and when he came out of the pits, he was 17th- but over the course of 18 laps climbed to 2nd place, passing car after car while a number of the other cars changed to dry slick tyres. But then Alesi had to serve a drive-through penalty for jumping the start. But this did not stop the emotionally highly-strung Alesi- he dropped down to 10th, but he pushed hard; and began passing car after car. He then went into the pits and dropped to 13th from 8th. Alesi had gone off on the last corner on lap 20 but recovered, but dropped further down the order to 15th. Just about all the runners had changed to dry slick tyres, and Alesi started to push hard again- and he was lapping the damp circuit 5 seconds faster than everyone else, and just about everybody had slick tyres on at this point. He went from 15th to 9th in one lap and he got into 2nd again behind Schumacher- whom he had caught up to and battled with for the lead. This remarkable performance was only to last 5 laps, however: Alesi's Ferrari's driveshaft failed as a result of his excursion earlier and he retired from the race. Schumacher won the race; he had already won the driver's championship at the European Grand Prix at the Nürburgring. 1996 was the last race of the year, and it saw Williams teammates Jacques Villeneuve and Damon Hill's title struggle come to a showdown at Suzuka. Villeneuve lost a wheel on lap 37 and went off at the second of the first sequence of corners, handing the driver's title to Damon Hill; however he was never as competitive as he was ever again in Formula One- team owners Frank Williams and Patrick Head decided earlier in the season not to renew Hill's contract. , 1997 saw Michael Schumacher win and his title rival Jacques Villeneuve disqualified for ignoring yellow flags during one of the practice sessions. Finn Mika Hakkinen won the next 2 races and his second consecutive driver's title in 1999. The next 5 events were all won by Ferrari; Schumacher won in 2000–2002 and 2004, and his teammate Rubens Barrichello won in 2003. Schumacher won his 3rd title at the 2000 event, he took advantage of his superior speed in damp conditions during a mid-race rain shower to secure the race win and his first World Title for Ferrari. Ferrari completed their domination of the 2002 season by completing their total points tally of 221 points on the previous 10-point scoring system. At the 2003 event, Michael Schumacher endured one of the most trying races [ original research? ] in his career, needing to come at least eighth, he started at fourteenth on the grid — but managed to secure the point he needed to take his sixth World Championship, beating the record held by Juan Manuel Fangio . The qualifying session for the 2004 event , due to have been held on 9 October, was postponed until race day after a typhoon hit Suzuka. This led to the idea of holding qualifying sessions on a Sunday morning (an idea that was abandoned half-way through the following year ). The 2005 race was one of the most exciting races of the season after many top drivers started near the back of the grid after the qualifying in variable weather. McLaren driver Kimi Räikkönen won the race after starting from 17th place, overtaking Renault driver Giancarlo Fisichella at the beginning of the last lap, after Fisichella was blocked by a backmarker. At the 2006 event Schumacher led until an engine failure virtually ended his chances of an eighth championship, which went to Spaniard Fernando Alonso . , It was announced on March 24, 2006 by the FIA that future races will again be held at the redesigned Fuji Speedway (now owned by Toyota) in Oyama , Sunto District , Shizuoka Prefecture .  The news of the Japanese Grand Prix moving to the circuit redesigned by Hermann Tilke was met with some trepidation, as the Honda-owned Suzuka was a favorite of many of the drivers and Hermann Tilke's tracks have received mixed reviews from the drivers and the fans. , On 8 September 2007, it was announced that Fuji will alternate the Japanese Grand Prix with Suzuka, starting from 2009 onwards.  The 2007 race was held in torrential rain and started behind the safety car. Lewis Hamilton took the victory while his team-mate Fernando Alonso crashed heavily. Heikki Kovalainen finished 2nd, his best result until that date and Kimi Räikkönen 3rd, marking the first time that two Finnish drivers were together on the podium. In 2008, the first corner brought troubles for the McLarens and the Ferraris, and Fernando Alonso was able to take win in a Renault. Felipe Massa was 7th after a penalty for a collision with title rival Lewis Hamilton, while Hamilton finished outside the points, having also served a penalty for an incident in the first corner. , In July 2009, Toyota cited a global economic slump as the reason that the Japanese Grand Prix would not return to Fuji Speedway in 2010 and beyond. The speedway argued, according to the Associated Press , that "continuing to host F1 races could threaten the survival of the company." As a result, the 2010 Grand Prix was held at Suzuka.  Sebastian Vettel secured his second World Championship in the 2011 Grand Prix with a third-place finish, McLaren 's Jenson Button (the only driver who in the field who had a theoretical chance of beating Vettel to the title) won the race wearing a special tribute helmet to the people affected by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami . The helmet featured a design in the style of the Japanese flag, and he auctioned the helmet off afterwards to raise money for those caught in unfortunate circumstances during the times of the tsunami earlier that year. , From its return to the Formula One calendar in 1987 , the Japanese Grand Prix was one of the most popular with spectators. For the 1990 race , three million fans entered a draw for the 120,000 available tickets, due to the popularity of Honda 's world championship successes as an engine supplier to the Williams and McLaren teams, and the fact that the country had produced its first full-time F1 driver in the shape of Satoru Nakajima and Ayrton Senna's immense popularity in Japan. [ original research? ] After Nakajima's retirement in 1991 and Honda's withdrawal from competition the following year, interest went into decline despite the addition of the Pacific Grand Prix to the F1 calendar, an event also held in Japan during the 1994 and 1995 seasons. The 1995 Japanese Grand Prix was the first for which the allocated tickets did not sell out.  Subsequently, the appearance of new Japanese drivers such as Takuma Sato and the entry of Honda and Toyota as full manufacturer teams has restored the event to its former popularity. But Honda pulled out of F1 at the end of 2008, citing economic reasons, and Toyota did the same the following year, also citing economic reasons. , Honda will be returning to Formula One as an engine supplier for McLaren starting in the 2015 season. On 23 August 2013 it was announced that the contract for the Japanese Grand Prix had been extended until 2018.  , Events which were not part of the Formula One World Championship are indicated by a pink background.  Coordinates : 43°24′16″N 39°57′16″E ﻿ / ﻿ 43.404421°N 39.954529°E ﻿ / 43.404421; 39.954529 , The Russian Grand Prix ( Russian : Гран-при России ) is an annual auto race held at Sochi Autodrom —a street circuit built around Olympic Park in Sochi , Russia , as part of the Formula One World Championship . , The race was first held briefly in the 1910s in St. Petersburg ; while plans were made to host a Formula One event in Moscow for the 1983 season as the Grand Prix of the Soviet Union , these plans fell through. In 2010, it was officially announced that the Russian city of Sochi , who was also preparing to host the 2014 Winter Olympics , would host a new event on the F1 schedule beginning in the 2014 Formula One season under a seven-year deal. , , , The Russian Grand Prix was run twice, in 1913 and 1914 at a circuit in St. Petersburg . The first race was won by Russian driver Georgy Suvorin ,  whilst German Willy Scholl won the 1914 event.  The race was abandoned following the outbreak of the First World War and the Russian Civil War , and it was not resumed with the establishment of the Soviet Union . , Plans for a Grand Prix in Russia emerged in the early 1980s, with a proposed circuit in Moscow to be run under the title of the "Grand Prix of the Soviet Union". The race was included on a provisional calendar for 1983 , but bureaucratic barriers prevented the Grand Prix from being held, and the race was removed from all subsequent revisions of the calendar.  Nevertheless, Bernie Ecclestone continued in his quest to organise a race behind the Iron Curtain , and Hungary became the first communist country to host a race instead, joining the calendar in 1986 . , In 2001, Vladimir Putin , then serving as President of Russia, expressed personal support to the project of the "Pulkovskoe Ring" near the Pulkovo Airport ,   but the race never came to fruition. Another attempt was made in 2003, with the Moscow council approving a project to build a track in the Molzhaninovsky area in the Northern District of Moscow, to be known as Nagatino Island.  The project was abandoned after a dispute over the commercial contract. In September 2008, it was revealed that work was to begin on a Formula One circuit to be located at the town of Fedyukino , Volokolamsky District of the Moscow Province , approximately 77 kilometers (48 mi) away from Moscow . Known as the Moscow Raceway , the track was designed by Hermann Tilke to host both Formula One and Moto GP races.   The plan to host a Grand Prix at the Moscow Raceway was never realised, but unlike the Pulkovskoe Ring and Nagatino Island projects, the circuit was completed, and in 2012, hosted rounds of the Formula Renault 3.5 and 2.0 Series  — which became the first internationally accredited motorsport events to hold a round in Russia — as well as the FIA GT1 World Championship ,  and the Superbike World Championship .  , Vitaly Petrov became Russia's first Formula One World Championship driver in 2010, when he joined Renault , adding further momentum to the project. Bernie Ecclestone expressed a desire to see Formula One travel to Russia at a circuit in or near Moscow or at the resort city of Sochi ,  After several decades of attempting to re-establish the race, the new Russian Grand Prix was officially announced on 14 October 2010 for a debut in 2014, running through 2020. The race is held in the resort city of Sochi , host city of the 2014 Winter Olympics , at the Sochi Autodrom —a 5.9 km street circuit which passes around the venues Sochi's Olympic Park .    , The inaugural event was held on 12 October 2014, and was won by British driver Lewis Hamilton , followed by German driver Nico Rosberg , both from the Mercedes-Benz team , and Valtteri Bottas , of Williams .  , Events which were not part of the Formula One World Championship are indicated by a pink background.  The United States Grand Prix is a motor race which has been run on and off since 1908, when it was known as the American Grand Prize . The race later became part of the Formula One World Championship. Over 44 editions, the race has been held at ten locations, since 2012 at the Circuit of the Americas in Austin, Texas . , , , Inspired by the Gordon Bennett Cup and Circuit des Ardennes races he had competed in, William Kissam Vanderbilt founded a series of road races in the United States to showcase American road racing to the world. The Vanderbilt Cup soon became an institution on New York's Long Island , attracting American and European competitors alike. However, the race was plagued by crowd control problems, which led to spectator deaths and injuries, and the cancellation of the 1907 event. Upon its return for 1908, the American Automobile Association did not adopt the new Grand Prix regulations agreed upon by the Association Internationale des Automobiles Clubs Reconnus (AIACR).   This led the rival Automobile Club of America, an enthusiasts group with strong ties to Europe, to sponsor the American Grand Prize , using the Grand Prix rules.  The Savannah Automobile Club, who had staged a successful stock car race in the spring, won the rights to stage the event.  , The Savannah Automobile Club laid out a lengthened version of their stock car course, totaling 25.13 mi (40.44 km). Georgia Governor M. Hoke Smith authorized the use of convict labor to construct the circuit of oiled gravel. The Governor also sent state militia troops to augment local police patrols in keeping the crowd in check, hoping to avoid the pitfalls of the Vanderbilt Cup races.  The entry for the inaugural race featured 14 European and six American entries, including factory teams from Benz , Fiat , and Renault .  In the race, held on Thanksgiving Day , Ralph DePalma led early in his Fiat, before falling back with lubrication and tire problems. The race came down to a three-way battle between the Benz of Victor Hémery and the Fiats of Louis Wagner and Felice Nazzaro . Wagner won the race by the close margin of 56 seconds.  , Despite the success of the Savannah event, it was decided that the 1909 race would be held on Long Island, in conjunction with the Vanderbilt Cup. However, only the Vanderbilt race was held and the Grand Prize pushed back to the next year. After the 1910 Vanderbilt Cup saw more issues, including the deaths of two riding mechanics and several serious spectator injuries, the Grand Prize was cancelled once again. A last-minute request by the Savannah club saved the race for the year, but only gave one month to prepare the course. A shorter 17-mile (27 km) course was laid out, but due to the short notice, most European teams were not able to make the trip. The leading trio from 1908 did make it and American David Bruce-Brown joined the Benz squad. Bruce-Brown won another incredibly tight race over teammate Hémery, this time by only 1.42 seconds.  The 1911 event returned to Savannah, and this time the Vanderbilt Cup came with it; the Cup and Grand Prize were to be held together until 1916. Despite the success of the events, public pressure started to amount on the organizers. The use of convict labor and the militia drew criticism, as did the nuisance of closing roads for the event.  Two accidents on the open roads in practice, one resulting in the death of Jay McNay, cast a shadow over the event. The American entries dominated the support events and ran well throughout the Grand Prize, after poor showings in past years and once again Bruce-Brown triumphed, this time driving a Fiat.  , For 1912, Savannah succumbed to public pressure, and Milwaukee , Wisconsin , won the bid for the race. A narrow, 7.88-mile (12.68 km) trapezoidal course was set up on the outskirts of the city, in Wauwatosa . As in 1911, tragedy struck in practice when David Bruce-Brown was killed after a puncture sent him off the road. On the final lap of the race, Ralph DePalma collided with eventual winner Caleb Bragg , seriously injuring DePalma and his mechanic and ending any chance of a second race at Milwaukee.  , The Grand Prize was not held in 1913, after Long Island's bid was rejected and Savannah refused to provide sufficient prize money. Oval racing on board tracks had taken off in the United States, to the detriment of road racing. For 1914, the Grand Prize and Vanderbilt Cup were staged in Santa Monica, California , on an 8.4-mile (13.5 km) course, with the start/finish straight along the Pacific Ocean . The field was primarily American entries (twelve, against five European entries), and the Americans dominated, with Eddie Pullen 's Mercer winning by over 40 seconds.  In 1915, the race shifted to San Francisco , in conjunction with the Panama–Pacific International Exposition . With the outbreak of World War I in Europe, almost all of the drivers and cars were American, except for a few cars imported earlier. The 3.84-mile (6.18 km) course was set up around the Exposition grounds and nearby oval track with a boarded main straightaway. Heavy rain began two hours into the race, covering the circuit in mud from the extensive flower arrangements, and warping the main straight's boards. Dario Resta in a Peugeot cruised to a seven-minute victory, and followed up a week later by winning the Vanderbilt Cup.  For 1916, the Grand Prize returned to Santa Monica. The race would be a part of the AAA National Championship , which carried a 4.91-liter displacement limit. Although the limit for the Grand Prize was 7.37 liters, no large-displacement cars would enter. The race was the penultimate round of the championship, with Dario Resta leading Johnny Aitken after his Vanderbilt Cup win. However, both cars would be out before halfway. Although Aitken took over teammate Howdy Wilcox 's car for the win, the AAA awarded points only to Wilcox, and Resta took the championship.   , The Grand Prize was discontinued after the 1916 event. Between a lack of European participation due to World War I and the growing American interest in oval racing, road racing fell by the wayside. The two Santa Monica events were the only road races on the 1916 championship, and the aborted 1917 National Championship was slated to feature 8 events, all ovals and six of them board tracks.  The Vanderbilt Cup was revived in 1936 and 1937 and run to Grand Prix regulations, but the races were a commercial failure. , The Indianapolis 500 kept a connection to European racing, running to Grand Prix regulations between 1923 and 1930,  and from 1938 until 1953.  In the late 1920s, efforts were made to refer to the 500 as the American Grand Prize.  The Grand Prize trophy was awarded to the winner of the Indianapolis 500 between 1930  and 1936, when it was replaced by the Borg-Warner Trophy . The race was included in the World Championship from 1950 through 1960. , Riverside International Raceway opened in Riverside, California , in 1957 and one of its first events was an SCCA National sports car race. For 1958, the race moved to the new, professional, USAC Road Racing Championship , and was billed as the "United States Grand Prix".   The race attracted over 50 cars and drivers from sports car series in the U.S. and Europe, as well as USAC and NASCAR . Chuck Daigh won in a Scarab , beating Dan Gurney 's Ferrari in second place.   , Russian-born Alec Ulmann staged the first 12 Hours of Sebring endurance race, located in central Florida in 1952 and it became a round of the World Sportscar Championship in 1953. Buoyed by the success of the 12 Hours, the Riverside sports car race and Formula Libre events at Watkins Glen and Lime Rock Park , Ulmann decided to stage a Formula One race at Sebring International Raceway in 1959. The race was billed as the "II United States Grand Prix",  cementing the Riverside race as a part of the Grand Prix's heritage. The race was originally scheduled for March 22, the day after the 12 Hour-race, but rescheduled for December 12, the final round of the season.  The race took place 3 months after the previous round at Monza . The starting grid included seven American drivers, but New Zealand 's Bruce McLaren , in a Cooper , took his first win in F1 and was, at the time, the youngest driver ever to win a Grand Prix. McLaren took the lead on the last lap of the race when his team-mate, Jack Brabham , ran out of fuel. Brabham had to push his car over the line to finish fourth. By virtue of Ferrari 's Tony Brooks finishing third, Brabham and Cooper took the drivers' and constructor's championships.  Despite providing an exciting climax to the season, the race was not successful from the hosts' standpoint, as the promoters barely broke even. When prize money checks bounced, Charles Moran and Briggs Cunningham paid the money to save face for their country.  , Ulmann moved the race to the Riverside International Raceway in Riverside, California in 1960 . Stirling Moss put on quite a show in his privately entered Lotus by winning from pole position. However, while the driver's purse was enormous (as at Sebring), the event was no better received than the previous year's due to a lack of promotion, and proximity to the successful Times Grand Prix .  Again Moran and Cunningham would pay the prize money.  , Through most of 1961, Ulmann was listed as the promoter of the USGP, and contacted organizers in Miami and Bill France of the Daytona International Speedway but was unable to reach agreements. In August, racing promoter Cameron Argetsinger , owner of the 2.35-mile (3.78 km) Watkins Glen Grand Prix Race Course located in the central Finger Lakes region of upstate New York , offered his circuit to the Automobile Competition Committee for the United States (ACCUS) to host the Grand Prix. He succeeded and Watkins Glen would host the United States Grand Prix for the next 20 years. Over this time, the event became a tradition among the fans as loyal crowds gathered each autumn on the spread out hills of Upstate New York . It was one of the season's most popular events with the teams and drivers as well, receiving the Grand Prix Drivers' Association award for the best organized and best staged Grand Prix of the season in 1965 , 1970 , and 1971 . The isolated, very peaceful and quiet location of the track gave it a vacation-type atmosphere (it was and is at least four hours from a major city in every direction, New York City and Philadelphia were the two cities closest to Watkins Glen) and there was often a festive atmosphere that celebrated the end of each season of Formula One that included the Glen on its calendar. Watkins Glen has the longest hosting record of any American Formula One race in history; the considerably challenging track became known as the "Mecca" of American road racing and it eventually wove itself into European Grand Prix racing culture.  , Watkins Glen had hosted a series of Formula Libre events that attracted international entries. ACCUS accepted on August 28, leaving only six weeks to organize the event on October 8. Argetsinger assembled the field, but was unable to convince Scuderia Ferrari to make the trip, leaving Richie Ginther and recently crowned World Champion Phil Hill out of their home Grand Prix.  Innes Ireland took a surprise win, his first and the first for Team Lotus . Dan Gurney 's Porsche was second, and Tony Brooks was third in his final Grand Prix. Stirling Moss , in his final Grand Prix, retired with engine problems. Unlike the previous two races, the race was well attended (over 60,000) and turned a profit. The Watkins Glen circuit had similarities to the British Brands Hatch circuit, in that a number of corners were banked and very fast and that the circuit was located in a very green part of the world.  The race purse was paid in cash, a popular move with the teams after the previous two years payment issues.  Due to its position on the calendar near the end of the season, often either the final or penultimate round, championships were often decided before the event. In part to offset this, race organizers offered large sums of prize money; in 1969 the purse totaled $200,000 (with $50,000 for the winner),  and when in 1972 it was raised to $275,000, the Tyrrell team earned a record $100,000.  , 1962 saw Briton Jim Clark win in a Lotus; the next three races were won by fellow-Briton Graham Hill, each time in a BRM. Hill's 1964 win was crucial to him as he carried a points advantage into the next and final race in Mexico. 1966 and 1967 saw Clark win, the '66 win was the only time he won that year driving a Lotus with an overweight BRM H16 engine. Both the driver's and constructor's championships were clinched by Australian Jack Brabham and his Brabham team. Clark dominated the 1967 event, leading comfortably from his teammate Hill and American Dan Gurney in an Eagle. In 1968 Mario Andretti put his Lotus 49 on pole position in his first ever Formula One race on a track he had never seen before. Andretti retired, and Briton Jackie Stewart won the race in a Ford/Cosworth powered Matra. Austrian Jochen Rindt won in 1969 – his first Formula One race. He took advantage of Stewart's mechanical problems to pull a huge gap out on the rest of the field. Graham Hill had a much worse day, however. He punctured his car's rear right tire and the rubber came off the rim. The rubber exploded, sending Hill's Lotus cartwheeling off the course, and Hill was thrown out of the car at a very awkward angle, breaking both legs. 1970 was a memorable event, Brazilian newcomer Emerson Fittipaldi won the race, which was his fourth start in a Formula One race. Stewart retired his new Tyrrell and Fittipaldi, driving a Lotus, held off a charge from Mexican Pedro Rodriguez in a BRM. It was a very emotional win for Colin Chapman's Lotus team, as team leader Rindt had been killed while practicing for the Italian Grand Prix at Monza. Lotus had not run the Canadian Grand Prix, but because the next closest championship contender Jacky Ickx did not score enough points to keep him in contention, the driver's championship went posthumously went to Rindt at this race. Team Lotus also won the constructor's championship at the 1970 event. , In 1971, the course was changed considerably. The entire lower section of the track was torn up and re-drawn, and there was a whole new "boot" section which added more than a mile to the course, lengthening it to 3.377 miles (5.435 km). It also saw a new pitlane and pit straight and three new corners (a new first, second-to last and last corners). The improvements cost nearly $2.5 million ($13 million in 2010 dollars).  The alterations considerably heightened the driving challenge of the track, and it became even more popular than it had been with drivers, teams and fans. Watkins Glen had been transformed from a quick, small circuit into a fast, scenic and very tough up-and-down circuit where just about every corner was banked and long; uncommonly hard driving and maximum effort was required for almost every part of a lap. 1971 was the first running on the completed full circuit (the circuit was not completed in time for previous races, so the completed short circuit was used) and it saw popular Frenchman François Cevert win his only Grand Prix for Tyrrell, and the biggest cash prize in Formula One- $267,000. 1972 saw Jackie Stewart win after Emerson Fittipaldi had already won the championship at the previous race, the Italian Grand Prix at Monza. Cevert made it a Tyrrell 1–2. The race was at this point attracting lots of entries; 30 drivers entered and qualified for the 1972 race. , But from 1973 to 1975, the event reached its probable low. The 1973 Grand Prix was to become a memorable event for all the wrong reasons. Stewart, unknown to almost everyone (even his wife Helen) had planned to retire after this race. He had already won his third driver's championship two races previously at Monza and he would be running his 100th and final Grand Prix. But during qualifying, Stewart's teammate and friend Cevert was killed. Going into the nearly flat out uphill Esses, Cevert went into the first right-hander too fast, clipped the steep curb on the left hand side, lost control, hit Watkins Glen's trademark sky blue Armco on the right side (which on both sides was (and still is) situated right next to the track) and then the Tyrrell started to spin uncontrollably. The car then struck the barrier on the left side nearly head on at 150 mph. The car vaulted and went over the barriers. The barriers cut Cevert in half and he was killed instantly. The Tyrrell was completely destroyed and the right rear tire was sticking over the Armco barriers. South African driver Jody Scheckter tried to get him out- but it was no use; Cevert was so clearly dead. The marshals just left Cevert in the car and threw a cover over the cockpit. A distraught Stewart and his team's manager Ken Tyrrell withdrew the team, handing the constructor's championship to Lotus. The illustrious Scotsman never raced competitively again. The race, however, was an exciting one. Swede Ronnie Peterson in a Lotus beat Briton new boy James Hunt in a Hesketh-entered March to the finish by 0.6 of a second. American Peter Revson finished fifth at his home race at his home track.  The 1974 event was to decide the world championship between Fittipaldi and Swiss Clay Regazzoni. Both drivers had the same number of points and Regazzoni, driving a Ferrari, ran into a host of problems during the race and finished out of the points. Fittipaldi finished fifth which won him his second driver's championship. The event was marred by yet another fatal accident. The young Austrian Helmut Koinigg crashed at the fast, long Outer Loop corner, the bend after the extended back straight on Lap 10. Koinigg's Surtees went straight on and the car went under the barriers and decapitated Koinigg, killing him instantly.  The race was a Brabham 1–2, with Argentine Carlos Reutemann winning with Brazilian Carlos Pace second. 1975 saw a medium speed chicane added to the Esses to slow the cars down, but it did not ruin the flow of the track. The race however, was a politically charged event. Regazzoni held up Fittipaldi's McLaren for six laps and Fittipaldi eventually lapped the Swiss. However, Regazzoni was black flagged by Clerk of the Course Berdie Martin and this irked the ire of Ferrari team manager Luca di Montezemolo . The thin and wiry Montezemolo actually got into a bit of a scuffle with the large Martin; and Montezemolo withdrew Regazzoni in protest. It was not a complete disaster for Ferrari- Austrian and recently crowned driver's champion Niki Lauda went on to win from Fittipaldi. , 1976 saw James Hunt win crucially in a McLaren while his closest championship contender Lauda finished third. At this point, Hunt was only three points behind Lauda for the final race at Fuji, Japan. The race also saw Jacky Ickx crash hugely at the Chute, the Belgian survived but was injured. 1977 saw rain throughout the race. Hunt won again on a very wet track as he held off home favorite Mario Andretti in a Lotus 78 to win by two seconds. 1978 saw the heavy-hearted circus arrive after the death of Ronnie Peterson at Monza two weeks before. Andretti had already accumulated enough points to win the Drivers' Championship before coming to Watkins Glen. Mechanical problems forced Andretti to retire early from the race, which was won by Carlos Reutemann in a Ferrari 312T3 . 1979 saw Ferrari driver Gilles Villeneuve win a very wet race after Australian Alan Jones retired after dominating much of the race. , But by this time, Watkins Glen had deteriorated from its earlier splendor. Drivers began complaining about the bumpy track surface, and the teams and press were concerned over facilities and rowdy fans.  The event started to be attended by drunken, rowdy people who knew little about motor racing and often went to the infamous "Bog", located inside the Boot to set fire to objects and do other destructive things; the Bog was a place where cars and even a Greyhound bus in 1974 were burned just for enjoyment. Even though the Bog was made into a parking lot in 1975, things still did not improve sufficently over the years. In 1978, the European motorsports governing body, FISA, demanded that the track owners make safety improvements to the track, which were made; and then the event was due to be cancelled for the 1980 season, but it was given a reprieve by FISA after promising to upgrade facilities over the winter.  After initially being given an April 13 date on the calendar, the race was moved to October 5.   Organizers were finally able to secure funding for circuit improvements in late August, and the track was resurfaced.  But they still needed a $750,000 loan from FOCA to pay prize money and other expenses.  Alan Jones won the exciting 1980 race for Williams after he went off at the first corner on the first lap and charged through the field into second place from 17th, and he ended up taking the checkered flag after pole sitter Bruno Giacomelli retired with electrical problems near the Chute. Reutemann would make it a Williams 1–2, followed by Frenchman Didier Pironi in a Ligier. But this would prove to be the final United States Grand Prix at the Glen. It was initially included on the 1981 calendar, but cancelled after the debts could not be paid and government loans were denied. It was replaced by the Caesars Palace Grand Prix in Las Vegas 2,500 miles away.   , In 1976, the Long Beach Grand Prix in the Los Angeles area became a Formula One event, making the United States the first nation since Italy in 1957 to hold two Grands Prix in the same season. The United States Grand Prix West , as it was called to distinguish from the United States Grand Prix East at Watkins Glen, was held until 1983, after which CART became the headliner series. The Caesars Palace Grand Prix in Las Vegas, Nevada was a non-starter in 1980, debuting in 1981; it would only last two years with Formula One, before CART took over the race for another two seasons. 1982 saw the inaugural Detroit Grand Prix in the center of Detroit, Michigan; making three Formula One races in the United States that year. Detroit would last until 1988, after which it too became a CART event. A one-off Dallas Grand Prix in Fair Park, Texas was held in 1984, which was plagued by problems with the track surface, exacerbated by extremely hot 104 F (40 C) July weather.  , A new Grand Prix in the New York City area was announced for the 1983 season, to be held either at the Meadowlands Sports Complex , Meadow Lake in Flushing Meadows , or Mitchel Field in Hempstead, Long Island (on the same site as the 1936 and 1937 Vanderbilt Cups).   However, the race was first postponed and then cancelled,  as CART started their own race at the Meadowlands , and titled it the "United States Grand Prix".  , Plans to continue Formula One races in the Detroit area at the nearby Belle Isle Park did not materialize, and in 1989, Formula One moved to Phoenix, Arizona .  The Phoenix street circuit in the centre of the city was unpopular with drivers and the event was largely ignored by the local populace; the 1990 Grand Prix reportedly attracted only a third as many spectators as an ostrich festival in the Phoenix suburb of Chandler on the same weekend.    , The inaugural event in 1989 was held in June, with temperatures nearing 100 °F (38 °C). The race was moved to March, as the opening round of the season, for the next two years. The McLaren team dominated all three years, with Alain Prost winning in 1989 and Ayrton Senna in 1990 and 1991. The 1989 race saw Prost take advantage of Senna's mechanical woes and 1990 race was notable in that emerging French star Jean Alesi harried Senna for a number of laps; the Tyrrell driver went on to finish second behind Senna. After the uneventful 1991 race was attended by little more than 18,500 spectators,  On October 7, 1991 members of International Auto Sport Federation (FISA) met to discuss the agenda for the 1992 Formula One season, where they voted to cancel the contract with city of Phoenix and award the contract to the South African GP. That same year, Phoenix city manager David Garcia said the city lost $1.3 million dollars and was in negotiations with Ecclestone on contract cancelation. The circuit itself, made up of wide, long straights and right-angle corners offered hardly any challenge to the drivers or any spectacle to the audience; this contributed to this event's failure in Phoenix.  Formula One had effectively tarnished its once-welcomed image in the United States during the Watkins Glen and eventually Long Beach eras. Over a period of 11 seasons, there were no less than four failed Grand Prixs in the United States: in Dallas, Detroit, Phoenix, and Las Vegas. Formula One had likewise become disillusioned with the United States. It would not return there until 2000. , It was not until 2000 that another United States Grand Prix took place, this time at the legendary Indianapolis Motor Speedway in Indiana. Indianapolis was rumored to have been considering a Formula One race since the USGP left Phoenix.  The 2.606-mile (4.194 km) infield road course uses about a mile of the oval, but in a clockwise direction. The crowd at the 2000 race was estimated at over 225,000, perhaps the largest ever in F1.  Michael Schumacher 's win was his second of four straight to end the season as he overtook Mika Häkkinen for his third Championship. In 2001, the race took place less than three weeks after the events on September 11, 2001 in the US , and many teams and drivers featured special tributes to the USA on their cars and helmets. The 2002 edition was known for Schumacher and teammate Rubens Barrichello trading places near the finish line after Schumacher's failed bid to end the race into a dead heat with Barrichello. Held in September its first four years (in order to distance it from the "500" and NASCAR 's Brickyard 400 ), the USGP at Indianapolis was moved to an early summer date in 2004 . In 2005, problems with Michelin tires led to seven teams withdrawing from the race after the formation lap. Only the three teams (six cars) with Bridgestone tires started the 2005 United States Grand Prix , and the event was considered a farce.  Many commentators questioned whether a United States Grand Prix would be held in Indianapolis again, but the 2006 United States Grand Prix was held the next year, on July 2, 2006, without controversy. , On July 12, 2007, Formula One and the Indianapolis Motor Speedway announced that the 2007 U.S. Grand Prix would be the last one held at IMS for the foreseeable future, as both sides could not agree on the terms for the event.  It was thought that the race would return to Indianapolis for 2009 on the track configuration that was used for the 2008 race in the MotoGP championship.  Then-Indianapolis Motor Speedway CEO , Tony George , claimed that the USGP would not return to Indianapolis unless it made financial sense. Due to the expensive fees paid to host a grand prix, the race would require a title sponsor to be economically viable.  Ultimately, the United States Grand Prix was not on the Formula One calendar for 2009. , In August 2009, Formula One president Bernie Ecclestone remarked that there was no immediate plan to return Formula One to the US, vowing "never to return" to Indianapolis.  Nevertheless, shortly before the first race of the 2010 season , Ecclestone continued to fuel speculation that a return to Indianapolis was not out of the question.  In March 2010, Ecclestone announced plans to bring a Formula One race to New York City for the 2012 season . Ecclestone was quoted as saying the race would take place across the Hudson River in New Jersey , with the Manhattan skyline overlooking the circuit.  In May 2010, plans emerged for a circuit to be built in Jersey City 's Liberty State Park ,   but those plans were abandoned shortly thereafter.  A race in West New York and Weehawken was later announced in October 2011. In May 2010, it was announced that Monticello Motor Club – a circuit complex modeled on a private country club near Monticello – had submitted a bid for the rights to host the race.  , On May 25, 2010, Austin, Texas , was awarded the race on a ten-year contract, as Ecclestone and event promoter Full Throttle Productions agreed to a deal beginning in 2012 . The event is being held on a purpose-built new track, which was named Circuit of the Americas .  German architect and track designer Hermann Tilke designed the new track on 800 acres (320 ha) of land to the east of the city.  In July 2010, promoter Tavo Hellmund promised that the circuit would be one of the "most challenging and spectacular in the world" and that it would include a selection of corner sequences inspired by "the very best circuits" in the world.  , On November 15, 2011, it was reported that construction of the circuit had been temporarily halted as the owners had not yet been awarded the contract to stage the race in 2012,  following reports that Bernie Ecclestone had cast doubt on the race taking place.    After Tavo Hellmund's contract was found in breach by Ecclestone  and a new contract was entered into between Formula 1 and the original track investors, Red McCombs and Bobby Epstein, the U.S. Grand Prix was confirmed to be held at the Circuit of the Americas in Austin on the original scheduled date in 2012.   Reining champion Sebastian Vettel took pole for the 1st race at the Texas circuit but it was 2007 winner Lewis Hamilton who kept his unbeaten run in the USA as the two finished almost 40 seconds ahead of third. , The Grand Prix in Austin has proven to be a considerable success, thanks to the Texas capital's growing reputation as a center of music and culture, its friendly citizens and unique atmosphere during the race weekend. It has been lauded from all quarters of Formula One.  , Another American race was scheduled for the 2014 season alongside the United States Grand Prix called the Grand Prix of America , which was to be held on a 3.2-mile (5.2 km) street circuit in West New York and Weehawken, New Jersey. The circuit is located right next to the New York State/New Jersey border, New York City 's Manhattan borough skyline and the Hudson River. The organizers signed a 10-year contract with Formula One Management and the race was originally on the 2013 calendar. However due to financial and preparation problems it was taken off the 2013 and 2014 calendar and is now unlikely to take place.  , Events which were not part of the Formula One World Championship are indicated by a pink background. , Notes: , A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship. , Sebring (1959) , Riverside (1960) , Watkins Glen (1961–1970) , Watkins Glen (1971–1974) , Watkins Glen (with Esses chicane) (1975–1980) , Phoenix (1989–1990) , Phoenix (1991) , Indianapolis Motor Speedway (2000–2007) ,   The Mexican Grand Prix (Gran Premio de México) is a Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile sanctioned auto race held at the Autódromo Hermanos Rodríguez in Mexico City . It first appeared as a non-championship event in 1962 before being held as a championship event from 1963-1970 and 1986-1992. The Grand Prix is scheduled to return in 2015 at the Mexico City circuit. , , , The Mexican Grand Prix was first held on 4 November 1962 at the Magdalena Mixhuca circuit. The circuit was the first international racetrack in Mexico and was built within a park in the center part of capital city of Mexico City . The race provided rare challenges racing at high-altitude (7,380 feet above sea level) and the challenge of the large, 180 degree, lightly banked and fast Peraltada corner that finishes the lap, in addition to being a bumpy racetrack from actively shifting soils beneath the circuit. The Mexican Grand Prix of this period was always the season finale Grand Prix, held in late October. , The first race , a non-championship affair which attracted a strong international entry, was won by Team Lotus with Jim Clark taking over the car of team mate Trevor Taylor to claim the win; Clark was black-flagged after receiving a push-start at a confused race start. The meeting was marred by the death of young Mexican star Ricardo Rodríguez who as a teenager was already a works Ferrari driver. Despite this, Rodriguez died after injuries received crashing a Rob Walker run Lotus 24 on the Peraltada. The Formula One World Championship arrived the following year with Clark winning again, equalling Juan Manuel Fangio 's record of most victories in a single season. 1964 saw the battle for both the drivers and constructor's championships. British drivers Clark, John Surtees and Graham Hill all arrived with a chance, with Hill leading the table; and Ferrari, BRM and Lotus were in contention for the constructors championship. The race started with Clark leading from pole position, with American Dan Gurney , Italian Lorenzo Bandini , Hill, and Surtees. Bandini and Hill were battling, and Bandini then ran into the back of Hill's car, causing him problems. Then, on the very last lap, Clark's engine seized, and Gurney took the lead, with Bandini second and Surtees third. The Ferrari team signaled Bandini to let his teammate Surtees through, which he did, and Surtees finished second behind Gurney and won the championship by one point over Hill, and Ferrari won the constructor's championship; Clark finished fifth. 1965 saw American Richie Ginther take victory for Honda, the Japanese company's first Formula One victory. 1967 saw Clark win his third Mexican Grand Prix, the most prolific winner of the race to this day. 1968 once again saw three men go into the race with a chance of winning the driver's championship. Hill, his countryman Jackie Stewart and New Zealander and defending world champion Denny Hulme . The race was a straight fight between Hill and Stewart; the Scotsman leading for several laps until Hill passed him. Hulme was running third, but he had a rear suspension failure and crashed on Lap 11. Swiss Jo Siffert decided to get in on the mix and took the lead, but he had to pit with a broken throttle cable. Stewart then fell back with when his engine started to misfire, his car's handling was going off and the car also had a fuel-feed problem. But Hill had no problems; and took victory and his second driver's championship. The race continued until 1970 when it was dropped from the calendar. An enormous crowd of approximately 200,000 arrived to see Pedro Rodríguez , but officials struggled to control the crowd and at one point a dog ran across the track and was hit by Stewart. , American IndyCars arrived for a brief two-year visit in 1980 and 1981, racing as the Grand Prix of Mexico on the Magdalena Mixhuca track now named for Mexico two lost racing heroes, Autódromo Hermanos Rodríguez. The event was dominated by Rick Mears . A number of years later, work began on rebuilding the Hermanos Rodríguez circuit with much improved organisation. The circuit's layout was slightly shorter and the circuit was much safer than it had been. The Grand Prix returned in 1986 where the race played host to Austrian Gerhard Berger 's first race win in his Benetton B186 , in a race where an ill Berger outlasted his opposition as tyre problems struck most of the field. The circuit was still very rough and bumpy, however. 1987 saw the race being run in two parts. It was stopped around mid-distance when Briton Derek Warwick crashed heavily coming out of the Peraltada, Brazilian driver Nelson Piquet actually won on the road, but because his Williams teammate Nigel Mansell was 30 seconds ahead when the first race ended, Mansell kept Piquet in sight and won the race on corrected time. , The 1988 race was moved from mid-October to a late May season slot. This race saw Frenchman Alain Prost dominate in his dominant McLaren, and Prost's Brazilian teammate Ayrton Senna won the next year; this was at a time when the two men's relationship was at a low point. 1990 saw the race moved to late June, and it produced a stirring drive from Prost (now in a Ferrari). The Frenchman qualified 13th on the grid and drove through the field, and took second from his teammate Mansell late in the race. Senna, who was leading, had a slow puncture that turned into shredded rubber and he went into the pits to have it changed, but the suspension was too badly damaged for the Brazilian to continue. This put Prost and Mansell 1-2 but Senna's teammate Gerhard Berger was challenging Mansell for second; and Berger aggressively passed the Englishman going into the Moises Solana esses. But Mansell was not about to give up- as the Englishman pulled a brave overtaking manoeuvre on the same lap. Going into the Peraltada, Mansell was climbing all over the back of Berger and he passed the Austrian around the outside of the corner. Prost won the race; Mansell and Berger finished second and third. 1991 saw Senna crash heavily at the Peraltada during practice; he was declared fit to race by FIA doctor Sid Watkins ; he finished third behind Williams drivers Riccardo Patrese and Mansell. On October 9, 1991 European media sources reported that promoters barely made enough funds to pay off F1 for the 1991 race. FISA demanded improvements to the track for the 1992 event.  For the 1992 season, the race had been moved further forward to March, and on February 20 of that year, Mexico City's air pollution had reached a record level. City officials had imposed emergency measures banning half of government cars and equipment from the streets. This put extra stress on the Mexican Grand Prix committee to ensure the track was ready for 1992.  Some safety measures had been implemented to the track; i.e. easing of the banking at Peraltada, making the corner a little slower. The race that year went ahead, and it saw Williams teammates Mansell and Patrese dominate the race. Senna had another bad accident, this time at the fast Esses. Although the circuit was popular with drivers, they began complaining about the ubiquitous bumps on the circuit, which had decayed even further and the decline of Mexico City itself not only with air pollution problems but also a rapid and unstable city population increase saw Formula One leave again. , 2002 saw the revival of the Grand Prix of Mexico for Champ Cars on a much modified version of the Autódromo Hermanos Rodríguez circuit which included cutting the peraltada in half. This was a six-year stay which saw Sébastien Bourdais win half of the six races that followed. , Rumors first surfaced in 2003  that the Mexican Grand Prix might return to the Formula One calendar at a new $ 70 million circuit, dubbed "Mantarraya", to be built near Cancún . In 2005, the governor of the Quintana Roo state boldly stated Mexico would have a Grand Prix on the calendar for 2006 .  The plan was halted, possibly scuttled, later that year as a debate arose about whether the land the circuit was to be built on was properly owned by the right people to do so.  , After the 2006 United States Grand Prix , Bernie Ecclestone announced that the Grand Prix of Mexico would return for the 2009 season, however nothing further came from the announcement. , In August 2011, Carlos Slim Domit revealed plans for a revived race.  In August 2013, it was suggested by "high level sources" that the Mexican Grand Prix could be on the provisional 2014 World Championship calendar.  A preliminary draft calendar for the 2014 season, circulated in early September 2013, assigned 9 November 2014 for the Mexican Grand Prix, but did not specify a circuit and noted that the event was "subject to confirmation".  But on December 5, 2013, the FIA released the official 2014 Formula One season calendar, and the Mexican Grand Prix was not on the calendar; then the FIA announced that the Mexican Grand Prix was postponed to 2015 due to lack of sufficient preparation time to upgrade the somewhat run-down Hermanos Rodríguez circuit to Formula 1 working standards.  In July 2014, Ecclestone confirmed that he had signed a 5-year deal for the Hermanos Rodriguez track to host the Mexican Grand Prix, starting in 2015.  On 3 December 2014, the FIA published a confirmed calendar for 2015  showing the 2015 Grand Prix of Mexico on 1 November 2015. , *Shared win with Trevor Taylor , Note: Pink background indicates non-Championship year.  The Brazilian Grand Prix ( Portuguese : Grande Prêmio do Brasil ) is a Formula One championship race which is currently held at the Autódromo José Carlos Pace in Interlagos neighborhood , Socorro district , São Paulo . , , , Motor racing had started in Brazil before World War II, and races on the 7.9-mile Gavea circuit in Rio de Janeiro had started in 1934. In 1936 construction began on Brazil's first permanent autodrome in the São Paulo neighborhood of Interlagos and was finished in 1940. Brazil held Grands Prix during the early parts of WWII at Interlagos and Gavea; and stock car type-touring car racing continued in Brazil where it became very popular. Interlagos quickly gained a reputation as being a very tough and demanding circuit with many challenging corners, elevation changes, a rough surface and little room for error. , Grand Prix racing was rare in Brazil only until the emergence of São Paulo native Emerson Fittipaldi in Formula One. In 1970, he won his first championship Grand Prix at Watkins Glen in the United States ; and São Paulo city officials saw in Fittipaldi a sporting hero equivalent to soccer star Pelé . They then set about refurbishing Interlagos to modern standards. , A Brazilian Grand Prix was first held in 1972 at Interlagos, although it was not part of the Formula One World Championship. Typical of European motorsports at the time, this race was done as a test to convince the FIA if the Interlagos circuit and its organizers could capably hold a Grand Prix. The following year, however, the race was first included in the official calendar, and it was won by defending world champion and São Paulo native Emerson Fittipaldi . In 1974, Fittipaldi won again in rain soaked conditions, and the year after, another São Paulo native, Carlos Pace , won the race in his Brabham, followed by Fittipaldi. 1977 was won by Reutemann, but the drivers began complaining about Interlagos's very rough surface, and the event was then relocated for a year to the new Jacarepaguá circuit in Rio de Janeiro. , After a year in Rio, the race returned to Interlagos, now with new and upgraded facilities for the next two seasons. But by 1980, the population of São Paulo had risen from 5 to 8 million over the space of 10 years; the area surrounding the track was becoming increasingly run-down and the growing slums surrounding the circuit did not look good for the glamorous image of Formula One; and the drivers were dissatisfied with the safety conditions of the very bumpy 5-mile Interlagos circuit which had not been changed after the previous year's improvements. The ground-effect wing cars of that year had a tendency to bounce up and down thanks to the suction created by the cars' wing-shaped underbodies, and they were more stiffly suspended than before; so these fragile cars were barely tolerant of such a rough track and were very unpleasant to drive. The bad surface was so rough that the bumps caused mechanical problems for some cars. Also, the barriers and catch-fence arrangements were not adequate enough for Formula One. Jody Scheckter attempted to stop the race from going ahead but this did not work and the race ended up being won by Frenchman Rene Arnoux . With Formula One's more glamorous image being better suited to the more wealthy and better-looking city of Rio de Janeiro, the F1 circus went back to Rio again and the circuit went on to host the 1980s turbo era. , In 1978 the Brazilian Grand Prix moved to Jacarepaguá in Rio de Janeiro . Argentine Carlos Reutemann dominated in his Ferrari, which was equipped with superior Michelin tires. This proved to be the French company's first victory in Formula One. Reutemann was followed by home favorite Fittipaldi and defending champion Niki Lauda .  , After the emergence in 1980 of Rio de Janeiro racer Nelson Piquet and the retirement of Fittipaldi, Brazilian fans lobbied to host the Brazilian GP in Piquet's home town. The flat Jacarepaguá circuit, like Interlagos before it, proved to be extremely demanding: most corners were long and fast, some were slightly banked and the track had a very abrasive surface. Due to the FIA calendar, which invariably had the Brazilian GP at the beginning of the season thus in the Southern hemisphere summer, most races were held under very high temperatures. Due to all of those circumstances, Grands Prix at Rio were highly demanding and most drivers who won it were exhausted in the end. , In 1981, Carlos Reutemann disobeyed team orders to let his teammate Alan Jones by and took the victory; the following year Piquet finished 1st and Keke Rosberg finished 2nd but because of the FISA-FOCA war , Piquet and Rosberg were both disqualified for being underweight in post-race scrutineering, and the race victory was given to 3rd placed Alain Prost , who would go on to win at Jacarepagua 4 more times (thus earning the nickname "the King of Rio"). The race also saw Italian Riccardo Patrese retire due to physical exhaustion (a very rare occurrence in F1, but quite common at Rio). Piquet won in 1983 and 1986, and the 1988 race was particularly notable, as up-and-coming star Ayrton Senna started from the pit-lane in his first race for McLaren; he began a furious charge that brought him up to second behind his teammate Prost; but he was disqualified for switching to his spare car after the parade lap had begun. The 1989 event was the last race at Jacarepaguá. It was won by British driver Nigel Mansell in his Ferrari, in the first Grand Prix won by a car with a semi-automatic gearbox, and it also saw German Bernd Schneider and American Eddie Cheever collide, and Cheever collapsed twice after he exited his car due to exhaustion. , Ayrton Senna's success thus far in Formula One had city officials working hard to revamp the Interlagos circuit in a $15 million investment to shorten and smooth over the circuit. In 1990 the Grand Prix returned to a shortened Interlagos, where it has stayed since. The Interlagos circuit has created some of the most exciting and memorable races in recent Formula One history, and is regarded as one of the most challenging and exciting circuits on the F1 calendar. , The first race at the new Interlagos in 1990 was won by Alain Prost , who won his 40th career race (the most ever at that point in time) and his 6th Brazilian Grand Prix. It wasn't a popular win, as the repercussions of the previous year's Japanese Grand Prix still laid in the minds of many Brazilians; Prost was seen as been given the driver's title by FIA president Jean-Marie Balestre at Senna's expense of being disqualified from that race in Japan. The Brazilian home favorite finished 3rd in Brazil after leading much of the race but then hitting his backmarker ex-teammate Satoru Nakajima in a Tyrrell. 1991 saw the patriotic Senna win emotionally his first Brazilian Grand Prix. His McLaren's manual gearbox was losing gears quickly and close to the end, he only had 6th gear left. This made the car much more difficult and physically demanding to drive, he drove around the track, eventually holding off Williams driver Riccardo Patrese. His exhaustion was so high that had to be extricated from his car. 1992 saw Mansell dominate the weekend and the rest of the season. 1993 was a race of variables; it began to rain heavily early into the race and Prost, now driving a Williams, had a rare accident on the main straight and retired. Senna went on to win in a McLaren from Prost's teammate Damon Hill. 1994 saw Senna, now driving for Williams spin his recalcitrant car going through Juncao late into the race. He was running in 2nd, trying to catch German Michael Schumacher , who went on to win. Senna would lose his life at the San Marino Grand Prix later in the year in an accident. 1995 was a very controversial race that initially had race winner Schumacher and Briton David Coulthard's cars excluded, but then reinstated for apparently using illegal fuel during the race. 1996 saw Damon Hill win his first of 8 races that season, and 1997 saw an accident at the start that involved 4 cars; Canadian Jacques Villeneuve went off the course at the first corner. The race was stopped and restarted; and Villeneuve jumped into the spare car and won the race. 1998 saw a controversy surrounding McLaren — Ferrari had protested about their braking system, and it was then banned from the Brazilian Grand Prix, although it had been approved 4 times by FIA technical delegate Charlie Whiting. It didn't matter much; Finnish McLaren driver Mika Hakkinen won the race. 1999 saw local Rubens Barrichello lead for some time until the engine in his car failed, and Hakkinen won again. , The 2001 Grand Prix was notable for marking the explosive arrival of Juan Pablo Montoya onto the Formula One scene. The Colombian driver stunningly muscled his way past Michael Schumacher early on and led easily until an incident in which Arrows' Jos Verstappen ran into the back of his Williams-BMW and ended his race. Montoya did eventually lay to rest the ghost of this event by winning the 2004 race in his final Grand Prix for Williams before moving to McLaren, holding off his future team-mate Kimi Räikkönen to take a hard-fought victory. The 2001 race is also notable for two brothers, Michael and Ralf Schumacher , sharing a row on the starting grid for the first time. , Particularly memorable recent Brazilian Grands Prix include the 2003 race, which saw a maiden Grand Prix victory, highly unexpectedly, and amidst chaotic and unusual circumstances, for Jordan 's Giancarlo Fisichella . Heavy rain before and during the race produced problems with tyre selection which caught out many teams, which allowed the weak Minardi team to have a real chance for victory the only time ever, because they were the only team who prepared to the rainfall, but their drivers were also soon out. And treacherous track conditions caused multiple drivers to spin out of the race, including then-reigning World Champion Michael Schumacher, ending a remarkable run of race finishes dating back to the German Grand Prix 2001. Amidst this, a number of drivers, including McLaren's Kimi Räikkönen and David Coulthard , led the race, and, when a heavy accident involving Renault's Fernando Alonso blocked the circuit and brought out the red flag, confusion reigned. Fisichella led the race at the time, having just overtaken Räikkönen; however, it was the Finn who was declared the race winner under the count back rule, which stipulates that the race result in such circumstances is taken from the running order two laps prior to the race being stopped. This decision was overturned days later in the FIA Court of Appeal in Paris after new evidence came to light which proved that Fisichella had crossed the finish line in the lead for a second time before Alonso's accident, and therefore was the rightful winner. The 2004 event marked the first time since the race's admission to the Formula One Championship calendar that it was not one of the first three rounds of the championship season. , Fernando Alonso became the youngest ever Formula One World Champion at the 2005 Brazilian Grand Prix, his third place behind winner Juan Pablo Montoya and championship rival Kimi Räikkönen was enough to clinch the title with two races remaining. , For 2006 the Brazilian Grand Prix, as in 2004, was moved to the prestigious position of hosting the final round of the season, in what was Michael Schumacher's first farewell to Formula One, before his return for the 2010 Formula One season . Starting from 10th position on the grid, Schumacher did an astonishing job on his last race. He fell to 19th position on the ninth lap due to a flat tyre caused by a minor collision with Giancarlo Fisichella when the former was trying to overtake the latter. After pitting for a new tyre he returned to the race, just in front of leader Massa, so almost being lapped, then passing several drivers to take the chequered flag in fourth place, after a dazzling passing manoeuvre on Kimi Räikkönen. His performance was not enough to give 'Schumi' his eighth trophy, as Fernando Alonso, who needed only one point to become World Champion again, finished in second place. Brazilian Felipe Massa took pole position and led the race from start to finish for the second victory of his career and celebrations from his Brazilian supporters. , In March 2008, the mayor of São Paulo announced that he had signed a new deal with Bernie Ecclestone to continue the holding of the Brazilian Grand Prix. This deal allows the Brazilian race to be on the calendar until 2015. With this, Interlagos is set for major improvements in its pit and paddock facilities.  , In the final race of the 2008 season in Brazil, Lewis Hamilton became the youngest Formula One world champion, to that point in Formula One history. After adopting a conservative strategy without risks for most of the race to secure at least 5th place, and the title, a late-race rain shower caused unexpected trouble. First, Hamilton was pushed down to 5th place by German Toyota driver Timo Glock who didn't enter the pits for intermediates like most other front runners. With just 3 laps to go, Sebastian Vettel then also overtook the Briton on the track which meant he would end up with equal points to Massa, but with one fewer victory. While everybody was focussing on the battle between these two (Vettel managed to stay in front in the end), against all expectations both were able to overtake Glock, who had lost all grip with his dry weather tyres, in the very last corner before the finishing straight. This meant that, while the McLaren driver's title rival Felipe Massa won the race in his Ferrari, Hamilton ultimately grabbed the fifth place he needed to become champion. Renault's Fernando Alonso, the previous youngest champion, was second ahead of Massa's team-mate Kimi Räikkönen and Toro Rosso's Sebastian Vettel. , Five Brazilian drivers have won the Brazilian Grand Prix, with Emerson Fittipaldi , Nelson Piquet , Ayrton Senna and Felipe Massa each winning twice, and Jose Carlos Pace winning once. The most ever is by the Frenchman Alain Prost , who has won it 6 times (including 5 times at Jacarepaguá). Argentine driver Carlos Reutemann and Michael Schumacher have both won 4 times. , On 10 October 2013 it was announced that the contract for the Brazilian Grand Prix had been extended until 2022.  , A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship. , Coordinates : 23°42′04″S 46°41′49″W ﻿ / ﻿ 23.701°S 46.697°W ﻿ / -23.701; -46.697  The Abu Dhabi Grand Prix (Arabic: سباق جائزة أبوظبي الكبرى) is a Formula One race. It was announced in early 2007 at the Abu Dhabi F1 Festival in the United Arab Emirates . The first race took place on November 1, 2009, held at the Hermann Tilke designed Yas Marina Circuit .  , On June 25, 2008 the FIA announced the provisional 2009 Formula One calendar including the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix as the 19th and final race of the season on November 15. On November 5, 2008, however, it was announced that the race would be held as the season finale on November 1, two weeks before the initially planned date, as the 17th and final race.  , The inaugural race was Formula One 's first ever day-night race, starting at 17:00 local time . Floodlights used to illuminate the circuit were switched on from the start of the event to ensure a seamless transition from daylight to darkness.  Subsequent Abu Dhabi Grands Prix have also been day-night races. , , , Formula 1 first came to Abu Dhabi in 2007 in the guise of the first ever Formula One Festival.  Announced in January 2007,  the event which took place on 3 February 2007 was free, and the largest gathering of current Formula One cars and drivers outside of a Grand Prix.  At the festival it was announced that Abu Dhabi had won the rights to host a Grand Prix from 2009 until 2016.   Later that year, Etihad Airways negotiated a three-year deal for them to become sponsors of the Grand Prix.  , For the 2009 Formula One season , the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix was added to the schedule. It was provisionally announced as being held on 15 November 2009, as the 19th and final Grand Prix of the season.  Both the Canadian Grand Prix and French Grand Prix were later removed from the provisional schedule,   and as a result the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix was moved to 1 November 2009 where it would become the last of 17 meetings.  In August 2009, it was announced that the start time would be 1700 local time (1300 UTC), and that the race would be floodlit.  The inaugural race was won by Sebastian Vettel for Red Bull Racing .  , For the 2010 Formula One season , the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix was held on the Yas Marina Circuit, for the weekend of 12, 13, 14 November 2010. The first race in Abu Dhabi in 2009 was a dead rubber as the both championships had been sealed in Brazil. This time around however, the drivers championship was decided in Abu Dhabi for the first time. With championship leader Fernando Alonso losing out and Sebastian Vettel completing his second victory on this track, the young German driver subsequently sealed the world championship. , The 2011 Grand Prix was the 18th and penultimate race of the 2011 Formula One season , and took place on 13 November. , The race was won by Lewis Hamilton in a McLaren - Mercedes . Second was Fernando Alonso in a Ferrari , with Jenson Button coming third in a McLaren - Mercedes . Sebastian Vettel , in a Red Bull - Renault , had been in pole position, but retired after a puncture in the first lap whilst going round the second corner. , Championship leader Sebastian Vettel finished the race in 3rd position after starting from the pitlane, due to his disqualification from qualifying because of not having enough fuel to return to parc fermé . His main championship rival Fernando Alonso finished 2nd behind the Finnish driver Kimi Räikkönen , who won for the first time after his return to Formula One earlier in 2012. , Red Bull Racing celebrated their double fourth (Drivers' Champion and Constructors' Champion) in Abu Dhabi . David Coulthard performed some more doughnuts on the helipad of the Burj Al Arab luxury hotel in Dubai, 210 metres above ground level. , Red Bull clinched their fourth consecutive constructors’ championship in India and Sebastian Vettel won the drivers’ title for the fourth year in a row.  , The 2014 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix took place on 23 November  and was the concluding race of the 2014 Formula One season . , Double points were awarded for the race, which was won by Lewis Hamilton , securing his second driver's championship. , The Yas Marina Circuit was designed by Hermann Tilke  and is located on Yas Island — a 2,550 hectares (25.5 km 2 ) island on the east coast of Abu Dhabi — and the 2009 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix was the first major event to take place on the circuit.  , Etihad Airways is the current major sponsor of Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. , Embolded drivers are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season. , Embolded teams are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season.  Michael Fred Phelps II (born June 30, 1985) is an American competition swimmer and the most decorated Olympian of all time , with a total of 22 medals. Phelps also holds the all-time records for Olympic gold medals (18, double the second highest record holders), Olympic gold medals in individual events (11), and Olympic medals in individual events for a male (13). In winning eight gold medals at the 2008 Beijing Games , Phelps took the record for the most first-place finishes at any single Olympic Games . Five of those victories were in individual events, tying the single Games record . In the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, Phelps won four golds and two silver medals, making him the most successful athlete of the Games for the third Olympics in a row.  , Phelps is the long course world recordholder in the 100-meter butterfly , 200-meter butterfly and 400-meter individual medley as well as the former long course world recordholder in the 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter individual medley . He has won a total of 77 medals in major international long-course competition, totalling 61 gold, 13 silver, and 3 bronze spanning the Olympics, the World , and the Pan Pacific Championships. Phelps's international titles and record-breaking performances have earned him the World Swimmer of the Year Award seven times and American Swimmer of the Year Award nine times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2012. His unprecedented Olympic success in 2008 earned Phelps Sports Illustrated magazine's Sportsman of the Year award. , After the 2008 Summer Olympics, Phelps started the Michael Phelps Foundation, which focuses on growing the sport of swimming and promoting healthier lifestyles. He continues to work with his foundation after the 2012 Olympics, which he has said will be his last. In April 2014, Phelps announced he would come out of retirement, and would enter an event later that month.  , , , Phelps was born and raised in the Rodgers Forge neighborhood of Towson, Maryland , located just north of Baltimore .  He attended Rodgers Forge Elementary, Dumbarton Middle School , and Towson High School .  Michael is the youngest of three children. His mother, Deborah Sue "Debbie" (née Davisson), is a middle school principal.  His father, Michael Fred Phelps, is a retired Maryland state trooper who played football in high school and college and tried out for the Washington Redskins in the 1970s.   Phelps's parents divorced in 1994, and his father remarried in 2000.  His ancestry includes English , Irish , Scottish , Welsh , and German .  Phelps graduated from Towson High School in 2003.  , Phelps began swimming at the age of seven, partly because of the influence of his sisters and partly to provide him with an outlet for his energy.  When Phelps was in the sixth grade, he was diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).   By the age of 10, he held a national record for his age group, and Phelps began to train at the North Baltimore Aquatic Club under coach Bob Bowman . More age group records followed, and Phelps's rapid improvement culminated in his qualifying for the 2000 Summer Olympics at the age of 15 and becoming the youngest male to make a U.S. Olympic swim team in 68 years.  While he did not win a medal, he did make the finals and finished fifth in the 200-meter butterfly .  , At the World Championship Trials for the 2001 World Aquatics Championships , on March 30, Phelps broke the world record in the 200-meter butterfly to become, at 15 years and 9 months, the youngest man ever to set a swimming world record, breaking the record previously held by Ian Thorpe when he lowered the 400-meter freestyle world record at 16 years, 10 months.  At the World Championships in Fukuoka, Japan, Phelps broke his own world record in the 200-meter butterfly en route to becoming a world champion for the first time.  , At Nationals, the selection meet for the 2002 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships , in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Phelps set an American record in the 200-meter individual medley and was just off the world record in the 200-meter butterfly.  In the 400-meter individual medley, Phelps bettered the world record held by Tom Dolan with a time of 4:11.09, just ahead of Erik Vendt , who finished second with a time of 4:11.27, also below the old world record. In the 200-meter freestyle, Phelps was barely beaten by Klete Keller and in the 100-meter butterfly, Phelps beat Ian Crocker .  , At the 2002 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships in Yokohama, Japan, Phelps won three gold medals and two silvers. In his first event, the 400-meter individual medley, Phelps won gold ahead of Erik Vendt with a time of 4:12.48. In the 200-meter butterfly, Phelps lost to Tom Malchow , finishing behind him 1:55.41 to 1:55.21. Phelps said he lost because he did not take butterfly training seriously after he broke the world record. In the 200-meter individual medley, Phelps won with a time of 1:59.70. In the 4×200-meter freestyle relay, Phelps, along with Nate Dusing , Klete Keller, and Chad Carvin , won the silver medal with a time 7:11.81 finishing behind Australia. The U.S. 4×100-meter medley relay team consisted of Aaron Peirsol , Brendan Hansen , Phelps, and Ian Crocker. In the final for the medley relay, Phelps swam a 51.1 split, at the time the fastest split in history. The final time of 3:33.48 was a world record.  , At Nationals, Phelps won the 200-meter freestyle, 200-meter backstroke, and the 100-meter butterfly.  He became the first American swimmer to win three different races in three different strokes at a national championship.  At the 2003 Duel in the Pool, a meet that pits swimming stars from Australia and the United States, Phelps broke the world record in the 400-meter individual medley with a time of 4:10.73 and almost broke the world record in the 100-meter butterfly, just missing the record by 0.03 seconds.  At a meet in Santa Clara County, California, Phelps broke the world record in the 200-meter individual medley with a time of 1:57.94.  Phelps said he broke the 200-meter individual medley world record after Don Talbot said Phelps was unproven, using his words as motivation.  , At the 2003 World Aquatics Championships , Phelps won four gold medals, two silver medals, and broke five world records.  Phelps broke his first world record on July 22 in the semi-finals for the 200-meter butterfly. Phelps swam a 1:53.93 to break his own world record of 1:54.58 set in 2001 and became the first man to swim under 1:54.00.  In the final of the 200-meter butterfly, on July 23, Phelps easily won the gold medal, but did not come close to his world record with a time of 1:54.35.  Less than an hour later, Phelps swam the lead-off leg for the 4×200-meter freestyle relay. Phelps put up a solid time of 1:46.60 (an American record) but the Americans could not match the depth of the Australians and ultimately finished second 7:10.26 to 7:08.58.  In the 200-meter individual medley, Phelps dominated. On July 24, in the semifinals of the 200-meter individual medley, he broke his own world record with a time of 1:57.52.  On July 25, in the final of the 200-meter individual medley, Phelps smashed his own record with a time of 1:56.04 to win the gold medal and finished almost 3 seconds ahead of Ian Thorpe .  About an hour before the final of the 200-meter individual medley, Phelps swam in the semifinals of the 100-meter butterfly. Phelps dominated again, finishing in the top seed position with a world record time of 51.47.  However, in the final of the 100-meter butterfly, on July 26, Ian Crocker erased Phelps's world record with a time of 50.98, to become the first man under 51 seconds. Phelps swam a 51.10 (also under his former world record), but had to settle for silver.  In the final of the 400-meter individual medley, on July 27, Phelps broke his own world record with a time of 4:09.09 to easily claim the gold medal.  About half an hour later, Phelps earned his final gold medal when the United States team won the 4×100-meter medley relay.  Phelps did not swim in the finals, but still earned a medal because he swam in the heats.  , At the 2004 U.S. Olympic Team Trials , Phelps competed in six events; the 200- and 400-medley individual medley, the 100- and 200-meter butterfly, the 200-meter freestyle, and the 200-meter backstroke.  In his first event, the 400-meter individual medley, Phelps easily won with a world record time of 4:08.41.  Two days later, in the 200-meter freestyle, Phelps won with a time of 1:46.27, finishing sixth-tenths of a second ahead of Klete Keller .  Phelps, however, was not pleased with the result and wanted to be in the 1:45s and was uncertain if he would swim the event in Athens.  The following day, Phelps won in the 200-meter butterfly with a time of 1:54.31, three seconds ahead of second-place finisher Tom Malchow .  After two days off, Phelps was back in the pool and finished second to Aaron Peirsol in the 200-meter backstroke.  Less than half an hour later, Phelps won the 200-meter individual medley title ahead of Ryan Lochte by 2.70 seconds.   The following day, Phelps finished second to Ian Crocker in the 100-meter butterfly. Crocker won in a time of 50.76, a world record and 0.39 seconds ahead of Phelps.  When the Trials were over, Phelps became the first person to qualify in six individual events for a U.S. Olympic team.  However, Phelps dropped the 200-meter backstroke to focus on the 200-meter freestyle because he wanted to race Ian Thorpe .  Even though Phelps didn't compete in the 100-meter freestyle at the Trials, he was still selected for the 4×100-meter freestyle relay. Gary Hall, Jr. thought this was unfair and said Phelps did not deserve a spot on the relay. Phelps argued his program was too crowded to compete in 100-meter freestyle and was at least among the top four swimmers because he had beaten the top-seeded Jason Lezak the last time he had swum against him.  , In his first event, the 400-meter individual medley, Phelps won with a world record time of 4:08.26 to win his first Olympic gold medal.   The following day, in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay, Phelps, along with Ian Crocker , Neil Walker , and Jason Lezak , finished in third place with a time of 3:14.62.   Crocker's lead-off time of 50.05 was the worst among the field and was blamed on sickness.   In the event many were calling The Race of the Century , held the following day, Phelps finished in third place behind Ian Thorpe and Pieter van den Hoogenband in the 200-meter freestyle.   Although this race ended the chance to match Spitz's record, Phelps had savored the challenge even though it was not his strongest event, saying "How can I be disappointed? I swam in a field with the two fastest freestylers of all time".  In his fourth event, the 200-meter butterfly, held the following day, Phelps finished first with a time of 1:54.04, breaking Tom Malchow 's Olympic record.   About an hour later, in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay, Phelps, along with Ryan Lochte , Peter Vanderkaay , and Klete Keller , finished in first place with a time of 7:07.33.  Two days later, in the 200-meter individual medley, Phelps finished first with a time of 1:57.14, an Olympic record.  In the 100-meter butterfly final, held the following day, Phelps defeated American teammate Ian Crocker (who held the world record in the event at the time) by just 0.04 seconds with a time of 51.25.   Traditionally, the American who places highest in an individual event will be automatically given the corresponding leg in the 4×100-meter medley relay final. This gave Phelps an automatic entry into the medley relay, but he deferred and Crocker swam instead.   Phelps's gesture gave Crocker a chance to make amends as well getting his final shot at a gold medal.  The American medley team went on to win the event in world-record time, and, since Phelps had raced in a preliminary heat of the medley relay, he was also awarded a gold medal along with the team members who competed in the final.   In winning six gold and two bronze medals, Phelps, still a teenager, had the second-best performance ever at a single Olympics, behind Mark Spitz 's seven gold medals at the 1972 Summer Olympics . Also, he became the second male swimmer ever to win more than two individual titles at a single Games with four, tying Spitz's four from 1972. , At the 2005 World Championship Trials, Phelps decided to drop his specialty events, the 400-meter individual medley and the 200-meter butterfly, and experiment with the 400-meter freestyle and the 100-meter freestyle.  Phelps went on to win the 400-meter freestyle, the 200-meter freestyle, the 100-meter butterfly, the 100-meter freestyle, and the 200-meter individual medley at the Trials.      , At the 2005 World Aquatics Championships , Phelps won a total of six medals, 5 golds and one silver.  In the 400-meter freestyle, Phelps did not make it past the preliminary heats and finished 18th overall with a time of 3:50.53.  Later that day, in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay, Phelps won his first gold in the Championships.  Two days later, on July 26, Phelps won his second gold in the 200-meter freestyle with a new American record time of 1:45.20, finishing ahead of Grant Hackett .  Two days later, on July 28, Phelps finished seventh in the 100-meter freestyle final.  Later that day, Phelps won his third gold in the 200-meter individual medley.  On July 29, Phelps, along with Ryan Lochte , Peter Vanderkaay and Klete Keller , won the gold in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay with a time of 7:06.58. This was the fourth gold medal for Phelps.  On July 30, Phelps swam in his last individual event, the 100-meter butterfly. In the final, Phelps could not match the speed of Ian Crocker and had to settle for silver, finishing 51.65 to 50.40.  On July 31, Phelps earned his final gold medal when the United States team won the 4×100-meter medley relay.  Phelps did not swim in the finals but still earned a medal because he swam in the heats.  , At the 2006 National Championships, Phelps won a total of three events.  In his first event, the 200-meter butterfly, Phelps won with a time of 1:54.32.  In his second event, the 100-meter butterfly, Phelps just edged out Ian Crocker 51.51 to 51.73.  In his third event, the 200-meter individual medley, Phelps won with a time of 1:56.50, just ahead of Ryan Lochte 's time of 1:56.78.  , At the 2006 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships in Victoria, British Columbia, Phelps won five gold medals and one silver.  In his first event, the 200-meter butterfly, Phelps won in a world record time of 1:53.80, his first world record in two years.  In his second event, the 400-meter individual medley, Phelps easily won with a time of 4:10.47, 3.38 seconds ahead of second-place finisher Robert Margalis .  In his third event, the 4×200-meter freestyle relay, Phelps, along with Ryan Lochte , Peter Vanderkaay , and Klete Keller , won the gold medal with a time of 7:05.28.  In his fourth event, the 200-meter backstroke, Phelps won the silver medal, finishing behind Aaron Peirsol 1:56.81 to 1:54.44.  In his fifth event, the 4×100-meter freestyle relay, Phelps, along with Neil Walker , Cullen Jones , and Jason Lezak , won the gold medal with a world-record time 3:12.46.  In his sixth event, the 200-meter individual medley, Phelps won with a world record time of 1:55.84, breaking his record of 1:55.94 set in 2003.  , At the 2007 World Aquatics Championships , Phelps won seven gold medals, tying the record, and broke five world records.  Phelps first gold medal came in the 4×100-meter freestyle. Phelps swam the lead-off leg in 48.42 seconds and Neil Walker , Cullen Jones and Jason Lezak each expanded the lead to win in a Championship record of 3:12.72, just missing the world record of 3:12.46 set the previous year.  His lead-off time was faster than the winning time in the individual 100-meter freestyle final later in the meet. Phelps set his first world record in the Championships in the 200-meter freestyle, his second race. Phelps won the gold ahead of Pieter van den Hoogenband and broke Ian Thorpe 's six-year-old world record with a time of 1:43.86.  For his third race, the 200-meter butterfly, Phelps won the gold and bettered his own world record of 1:53.71 with a time of 1:52.09.  For his fourth race, the 200-meter individual medley, Phelps set his third world record with a time of 1:54.98, bettering his own world-record time of 1:55.84  For his fifth race, the 4×200-meter freestyle relay, Phelps swam the lead-off leg in 1:45.36 as the American team of Ryan Lochte , Klete Keller , and Peter Vanderkaay went on to win the gold medal and beat the previous world record set by Australia in 2001 with a time 7:03.24.  For his sixth race, the 100-meter butterfly, Phelps edged out Ian Crocker 50.77 to 50.82 to win his sixth gold medal.  For his seventh event, the 400-meter individual medley, Phelps won the gold medal in a world-record time of 4:06.22, more than 3.5 seconds ahead of Ryan Lochte .  By winning seven gold medals, Phelps broke the record of six set by Ian Thorpe at the 2001 World Championships . The 4×100-meter medley relay team would have competed in the final, but received a disqualification for a false start during a changeover in the heats, ending Phelps's chance of eight gold medals.  , Even though Phelps competed in the backstroke in international competition only once (at the 2006 Pan Pacific Championships ), he was among the best backstroke swimmers in the world. This is illustrated by his personal best times set in 2007, four months after the World Championships. At the US Nationals in Indianapolis on August 1, 2007, Phelps swam a 1:54.65 in the 200-meter backstroke, which was the third fastest of all time in the event, 0.33 of a second off the world record of 1:54.32 held by Ryan Lochte .  Two days later Phelps swam a time of 53.01 sec in the 100-meter backstroke, 0.03 of a second short of the world record of 52.98 held by Aaron Peirsol and the second-fastest performance of all time.  In 2007 Phelps swam into the all-time top 3 performances in seven individual events, four of these being world records. , At the 2008 U.S. Olympic Team Trials , Phelps competed in six individual events. In his first event, the 400-meter individual medley, Phelps broke his own world record of 4:06.22 with a time of 4:05.25.  In his second event, the 200-meter freestyle, Phelps won with a time of 1:44.10, ahead of Peter Vanderkaay 's time 1:45.85.  In his third event, the 100-meter freestyle, Phelps placed second in his heat with a time of 47.92, ensuring him a spot on the relay.  In his fourth event, the 200-meter butterfly, Phelps won with a time of 1:52.20.  In his fifth event, the 200-meter individual medley, Phelps broke his own world record of 1:54.98 with a time of 1:54.80.  In his sixth and final event, the 100-meter butterfly, Phelps won with a time of 50.89.  When asked about his chances of winning eight gold medals in Beijing, Phelps said, "I am going to prepare for that meet just like I do every other meet ... There is only so much I can do in a month and then I am going to prepare myself the best that I can."  , Phelps set an Olympic record in the preliminary heats of the 400-meter individual medley.   He followed that up in the final by winning the gold medal, as well as breaking his previous world record by nearly two seconds.   , Phelps swam the first leg of the 4×100-meter freestyle relay in a time of 47.51 seconds (an American record for the 100-meter freestyle), and won his second gold medal of the 2008 Olympics, as well as setting his second world record of the Olympics (3:08.24).  Teammate Jason Lezak , after beginning the anchor leg more than half a body length behind Alain Bernard , managed to finish ahead of the second-place French team by eight hundredths of a second. The top five teams in the final finished ahead of the world record of 3:12.23 set the previous day by the American B team in a preliminary heat.  , For his third race, Phelps broke his previous world record in the 200-meter freestyle by nearly a second and won his third gold medal. He also set his third world record at the Olympics, 1:42.96, winning by nearly two seconds over silver medalist Park Tae-Hwan .  In this race, Phelps became only the fifth Olympic athlete in modern history to win nine gold medals, joining Mark Spitz , Larisa Latynina , Paavo Nurmi , and Carl Lewis .  , The next day, Phelps participated in two finals. In his first event, the 200-meter butterfly , Phelps made it four gold medals and world records in four events by swimming the final in 1:52.03, defeating silver medalist László Cseh by almost seven-tenths of a second despite his goggles' having filled up with water and being unable to "see anything for the last 100 meters.  This fourth gold medal was his tenth, and made him the all-time leader for most Olympic gold medals won by an individual in the modern Olympic era.  Moreover, Phelps became the first swimmer, male or female, to win three Olympic butterfly titles, after his two titles in the Athens 2004 Olympics. He also became the first swimmer to successfully defend an Olympic butterfly title. , Less than one hour after his gold medal victory in the 200-meter butterfly, Phelps swam the lead-off leg of the 4×200-meter freestyle relay. With Lochte, Ricky Berens , and Peter Vanderkaay , he won his fifth gold and set his fifth world record as the American team finished first with a time of 6:58.56. The Americans were the first team to break the seven-minute mark in the relay, and broke the previous record, set in Melbourne, Australia, by more than four and a half seconds.  , After taking a day off from finals (Phelps did swim in qualifying heats), Phelps won his sixth gold of the Beijing Games on August 15 by winning the 200-meter individual medley with a world record time of 1:54.23, finishing ahead of Cseh by over two seconds.  , Before the final of the 100-meter butterfly, US born Serbian swimmer Milorad Čavić caused a minor stir when he said it would be "good" if Phelps lost. "It'd be good for him if he loses. It would be nice if historians talk about Michael Phelps winning seven gold medals and losing the eighth to 'some guy.' I'd like to be that guy", Čavić said.  Phelps responded, "When people say things like that, it fires me up more than anything."  On August 16, Phelps won his seventh gold medal of the Games in the men's 100-meter butterfly, setting an Olympic record for the event with a time of 50.58 seconds and edging out his nearest competitor Čavić, by one hundredth (0.01) of a second.  , Unlike all six of his previous events in the 2008 Games, Phelps did not set a new world record, leaving intact Ian Crocker 's world-record time of 50.40 seconds, set in 2005. , Phelps's 0.01-second finish ahead of Čavić prompted the Serbian delegation to file a protest. Subsequent analysis of the video by the FINA panel, which required analyzing frames shot 1/10,000th of a second apart, was used to officially confirm Phelps's victory,  but the images were not immediately released to the press. The initial refusal by official timekeeper Omega to release underwater photos of the finish also raised questions due to Phelps's sponsorship relationship with Omega.  Čavić later wrote in his blog, "People, this is the greatest moment of my life. If you ask me, it should be accepted and we should move on. I've accepted defeat, and there's nothing wrong with losing to the greatest swimmer there has ever been."  In April 2015 Spitz said he had been sent an email posted by Omega that had said Phelps had lost the 100m butterfly final.  , Phelps's seventh gold medal of the Games tied Mark Spitz 's record for gold medals won in a single Olympic Games, set in the 1972 Olympics. It was also his fifth individual gold medal in Beijing, tying the record for individual gold medals at a single Games originally set by Eric Heiden in the 1980 Winter Olympics and equaled by Vitaly Scherbo at the 1992 Summer Games. Said Phelps upon setting his seventh-straight Olympic record of the Games in as many events, "Dream as big as you can dream, and anything is possible ... I am sort of in a dream world. Sometimes I have to pinch myself to make sure it is real."  , On August 17, Phelps won his eighth gold medal in the 4×100-meter medley relay, breaking Mark Spitz 's record of seven gold medals won in a single Olympic Games, which had stood since 1972.  Phelps, along with teammates Brendan Hansen , Aaron Peirsol , and Jason Lezak , set a new world record in the event with a time of 3 minutes and 29.34 seconds, 0.7 seconds ahead of second-place Australia and 1.34 seconds faster than the previous record set by the United States at the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens. When Phelps dived in to swim the 100-meter butterfly leg, the third leg of the 400-meter medley, the United States had been trailing Australia and Japan. Phelps completed his split in 50.1 seconds, the fastest butterfly split ever for the event, giving teammate Jason Lezak a more than half-second lead for the final leg, which he held onto to clinch the event in world record time.  Said Phelps, upon completing the event that awarded him his eighth gold medal and eighth Olympic record in as many events, "Records are always made to be broken no matter what they are ... Anybody can do anything that they set their mind to."  , At the 2009 National Championships, Phelps drastically shortened his program, swimming in only three individual events. In his first event, the 200-meter freestyle, Phelps won with a time of 1:44.23.  In his second event, the 200-meter butterfly, Phelps easily won with a time of 1:52.76, 0.88 seconds ahead of the second-place finisher.  In his third event, the 100-meter butterfly, Phelps won with a world-record time of 50.22.  , At the 2009 World Aquatics Championships , Phelps won a total of 6 medals, 5 golds and 1 silver. In his first event, the 4×100-meter freestyle relay, Phelps swam the lead-off leg in 47.78, well off his 47.51 performance in Beijing, but the American team was able to edge out Russia and France for the gold.  For his second race, the 200-meter freestyle, Phelps lost his first race in four years to Germany's Paul Biedermann . Phelps touched second in 1:43.22, but Biedermann smashed Phelps's record of 1:42.96 set in Beijing a year ago with a time of 1:42.00.  Phelps took the silver graciously, but coach Bob Bowman threatened to withdraw Phelps from international competition because Bowman claimed Biedermann had an unfair advantage because he was wearing a full polyurethane swimsuit , specifically an Arena X-Glide . Bowman said, "It took me five years to get Michael from 1:46 to 1:42 and this guy has done it in 11 months. That's an amazing training performance. I'd like to know how to do that."  Phelps rebounded from this loss and for his third race, the 200-meter butterfly, Phelps won the gold and broke his own world record of 1:52.03 with a time of 1:51.51.  For his fourth race, the 4×200-meter freestyle relay, Phelps swam the lead-off leg in 1:44.49 as the team went on to win the gold medal and break the world record set the previous year.  After his loss in the 200-meter freestyle, many thought Phelps was vulnerable coming into the final for the 100-meter butterfly.  His closest competitor, Milorad Čavić , who wore an Arena X-Glide (the same suit Biedermann beat Phelps with), thought people were making excuses for Phelps because he was wearing an LZR Racer . Čavić even offered to buy Phelps a new suit.  For his fifth race, the 100-meter butterfly, Phelps won the gold and became the first man to complete it in under 50 seconds, beating Čavić 49.82 to 49.95.  The victory prompted a fierce celebration from Phelps, who sat on the lane rope and pumped his chest and swimsuit.  For his final event, the 4×100-meter medley relay, Phelps won his fifth gold medal. Phelps, along with teammates Aaron Peirsol , Eric Shanteau , and David Walters , set a new world record in the event with a time of 3 minutes and 27.28 seconds.  , At the 2010 National Championships , Phelps competed in five individual events. In the 200-meter freestyle, Phelps won ahead of Ryan Lochte in a time of 1:45.61.  About an hour later, Phelps returned to the pool to win the 200-meter butterfly.  But Phelps was not happy with his performance and called it the "worst" 200-meter butterfly of his life. In the 100-meter butterfly, Phelps won his 50th national title in 50.65.  After the race, Phelps said he was "fairly pleased" with the result.   In the 200-meter individual medley, Phelps finished second to Lochte 1:55.94 to 1:54.84.  It was the first time Lochte had beat Phelps in a major national meet.  In the 200-meter backstroke, Phelps finished in 4th place in 1:56.98.  , On the first day of competition at the 2010 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships , Phelps opted out swimming in the final of the 200-meter freestyle to focus on the 200-meter butterfly. In the 200-meter butterfly, Phelps led from start to finish, coming in first with a time of 1:54.11. Although it was much slower than his 1:51.51 time from the previous year, Phelps had not lost a 200-meter butterfly final since 2002.   On day two of the competition, Phelps swam in the heats of the 400-meter individual medley and contributed in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay. In the heats of the 400-meter individual medley, Phelps failed to make the A final, with Lochte and Tyler Clary taking the top two American positions.  Phelps did not swim in the B final of the 400-meter individual medley. In the 4×200-meter freestyle relay, Phelps, with Peter Vanderkaay , Ricky Berens , and Lochte, finished first ahead of Japan and Australia.  On day three of the competition, Phelps competed in the 100-meter butterfly and contributed in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay. In the 100-meter butterfly, Phelps finished first in a time of 50.86, a championship record.  In the 4×100-meter freestyle relay, Phelps, with Lochte, Jason Lezak , and Nathan Adrian , finished first ahead of Australia and South Africa. As the lead-off leg in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay, Phelps set the championship record in the 100-meter freestyle with a time of 48.13.  In his final event, Phelps swam in the 4×100-meter medley relay with Aaron Peirsol , Mark Gangloff , and Adrian and finished first ahead of Japan and Australia.  , In his first event at the 2011 World Aquatics Championships in Shanghai, Phelps won bronze in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay with Garrett Weber-Gale , Jason Lezak , and Nathan Adrian .  This was Phelps's first bronze in a World Aquatics Championships . Phelps swam the lead-off leg in 48.08, the second-best lead-off in the field behind James Magnussen 's 47.49. In his second event, the 200-meter freestyle, Phelps won silver for the second consecutive time at a World Aquatics Championships. This time he finished second to Ryan Lochte in the event with a time of 1:44.79, compared to Lochte's time of 1:44.44.  In his third final, the 200-meter butterfly, he won his first gold medal with a time of 1:53.34 to become the first swimmer to win five gold medals in one discipline at the World Aquatics Championships.  In his fourth event, the 200-meter individual medley, Phelps again finished second to Lochte in a personal best of 1:54.16, which was 0.16 behind Lochte who swam a new world record.  It was Phelps's 30th medal in the World Aquatics Championships. Shortly after completing the semifinals of the 100-meter butterfly, Phelps competed in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay with Peter Vanderkaay , Ricky Berens , and Ryan Lochte . Phelps's team won the gold medal in a time of 7:02.67. Phelps swam the lead-off leg in 1:45.53, the third-best leg in the field.  In the 100-meter butterfly, Phelps won his third consecutive title (also winning in 2007 and 2009) and second individual title of the meet with a time of 50.71.  In his last event, the 4×100-meter medley relay, Phelps teamed with Nick Thoman , Mark Gangloff , and Nathan Adrian to win gold in a time of 3:32.06. Phelps's butterfly leg of 50.57 was by far the fastest butterfly leg in the field.  , For the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, Phelps originally stated he would never do eight events again, and would instead try new events. Phelps said, "I keep saying I want to go down and start sprinting, but Bob [Bowman, Phelps's coach] really isn't so keen on that ... I don't think that's going to happen ... Over the next four years, I'd like to try some different events, maybe not do some of the events I did here."   However, at the 2012 United States Olympic Trials , the qualifying meet for the 2012 Summer Olympics, Phelps qualified in the same eight events that he swam in Beijing in 2008. He later dropped the 200-meter freestyle from his program, as he stated he wanted to focus on the 4×100-meter freestyle relay.  During the trials, Phelps finished first in the 200-meter freestyle, 100-meter butterfly, 200-meter butterfly, 200-meter individual medley, and second in the 400-meter individual medley. In making his fourth Olympic team, Phelps holds the record for men for the most Olympic appearances in swimming representing the United States.  , On July 28, 2012, Phelps placed eighth in the morning prelims. Phelps, the two-time defending Olympic champion, won his 400 IM heat in 4 minutes, 13.33 seconds with a time that was well off his world record of 4:03.84 set four years ago in Beijing, when Phelps won a record eight gold medals. He had just barely out touched second-place finisher in his heat László Cseh by 0.07 seconds. In his first finals of the Summer Olympics, Phelps placed fourth behind fellow American Ryan Lochte , Thiago Pereira of Brazil , and Kosuke Hagino of Japan in the 400-meter individual medley . It was the first time Phelps failed to medal in an Olympic event since 2000.  The next night, in his second event of the Games, he got a silver as a member of the 4×100-meter free relay . Phelps swam the fastest leg of the US relay team and the second-fastest of anyone in the race.  , On July 31, 2012, Phelps won a silver medal in the 200-meter butterfly behind South African Chad le Clos by only 5/100ths of a second, and a gold medal in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay , thereby equaling and then surpassing Larisa Latynina to become the all-time record holder for most Olympic medals won.   Latynina was present at the race and asked to be the presenter of Phelps's medal, but was told that Olympic rules would not allow it. She called Phelps deserving of the record.  , On August 2, 2012, Phelps won his 16th Olympic Gold Medal when he edged out Ryan Lochte to win the 200-meter individual medley with a time of 1:54.27, and by that victory also became the first male swimmer to win the same event in three consecutive Olympics.  Rebecca Soni and Phelps (twice) are the only swimmers to successfully defend an individual title from the 2008 Games.  This win also marked Phelps's fifth Olympic title in the individual medley, breaking the record of four shared by Hungarian Tamás Darnyi and Ukrainian Yana Klochkova . , He repeated the achievement of winning the same event at three Olympics the following evening, winning the Olympic gold medal in the 100 m butterfly , his last individual event.  After two very close victories in the 100 m butterfly at the 2004 and 2008 Olympics (by 0.04 and 0.01 sec, respectively), in this race Phelps beat Le Clos and Yevgeny Korotyshkin , who tied for silver, by 0.23 sec. , Phelps's final event was the 4×100-meter medley relay in which he went on to win his 18th career gold medal and his 22nd overall. By winning 4 gold and 2 silver medals, Phelps concluded the 2012 Olympics as the most successful swimmer of the meet for the third Olympics in a row.   After his last event, the international swimming federation FINA honored Phelps with an award commemorating his standing as the most decorated Olympian ever.  , In April 2014, Phelps announced he would come out of retirement, and would enter an event later that month.  In May 2014, he won the 100-meter butterfly event at the Arena Grand Prix in Charlotte, North Carolina.  , During the 2008 Olympics, Phelps was questioned by the press as to whether perhaps his feats were "too good to be true", a reference to unsupported rumors that Phelps might be taking performance enhancing drugs .   In response, Phelps noted that he had signed up for Project Believe, a project by the United States Anti-Doping Agency in which U.S. Olympians can volunteer to be tested in excess of the World Anti-Doping Agency guidelines.  During the Games, Phelps passed all nine tests that were administered to him.   , Phelps has trained under Bob Bowman since he was 11 years old.  Bowman swam for Florida State University from 1983 to 1985.  Phelps has said Bowman reminded him of a drill sergeant because of his disciplined and regimented ways.  However, Phelps has said, "Training with Bob is the smartest thing I've ever done ... I'm not going to swim for anyone else."  After the 2004 Summer Olympics, Bowman was hired as the head coach for the University of Michigan after Jon Urbanchek retired. Phelps joined Bowman at Michigan to train and attended classes, but did not pursue a degree.   Phelps served as a volunteer assistant coach at Michigan.  After the 2008 Summer Olympics, Bowman returned to Baltimore as CEO at the North Baltimore Aquatic Club . Phelps also returned to Baltimore with Bowman.  , Bob Bowman described Phelps as "a solitary man"  with a "rigid focus"  at the pool prior to a race, but afterwards "a man incredibly invested in the success of the people he cares about".  "He's unbelievably kind-hearted",  recounting Phelps's interaction with young children after practices.  In February 2015, Phelps announced he was engaged to Nicole Johnson .  , In November 2004, at the age of 19, Phelps was arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol in Salisbury, Maryland.  He pleaded guilty to driving while impaired , and was sentenced to serve 18 months' probation , fined $250, ordered to speak to high school students about drinking and driving and to attend a Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) meeting.  Asked about the incident later by Matt Lauer on the Today Show , Phelps said that he had "let a lot of people in the country down."  , In February 2009, publication of a photograph of Phelps using a water pipe , a device used for smoking tobacco or marijuana , resulted in the loss of the Kellogg Company as a sponsor, as well as a three-month suspension by USA Swimming . Phelps admitted that the photo, taken at a party at the University of South Carolina , was authentic. He publicly apologized, saying his behavior was "inappropriate".  , In September 2014, he was arrested again, on driving under the influence of alcohol and speeding charges in Baltimore, Maryland.   As a result, USA Swimming suspended him from all competitions for six months, and stated he would not be chosen to represent the United States at the 2015 World Aquatics Championships in August.  , Phelps idolized Australian swimmer Ian Thorpe as a teenager, modelling his public image after him.  Thorpe initially said it was highly unlikely for Phelps to win eight gold medals at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing.  Phelps used the remarks as motivation, taping them to his locker during the Games.  Thorpe was in the stands for the 4×100-meter medley relay , where Phelps was swimming for his eighth Olympic title. When Phelps and his teammates captured the gold, Thorpe gave a congratulatory kiss to Phelps's mother, then gave a handshake and a hug to congratulate Phelps. Thorpe afterwards said "I'm really proud of him not just because he won eight golds. Rather, it's how much he has grown up and matured into a great human being. Never in my life have I been so happy to have been proved wrong."   , After the 2008 Olympics, Phelps used his $1 million Speedo bonus to set up the Michael Phelps Foundation.    His foundation focuses on growing the sport of swimming and promoting healthier lifestyles.  , In 2010, the Michael Phelps Foundation, the Michael Phelps Swim School and KidsHealth .org developed and nationally piloted the "im" program for Boys & Girls Club members. The im program teaches children the importance of being active and healthy, with a focus on the sport of swimming. It also promotes the value of planning and goal-setting.  im is offered through the Boys & Girls Clubs of America  and through Special Olympics International.  The Foundation has since developed two other programs, Level Field Fund-Swimming and Caps-for-a-Cause.   , The Foundation's largest event is its annual fundraiser, the Michael Phelps Foundation Golf Classic.   Phelps stated he hopes to work with Foundation more after he retires from competition following the 2012 Summer Olympics in London.  , r = relay lead-off , With 39 world records (29 individual, 10 relay), Phelps set more records than any other swimmer, surpassing Mark Spitz 's previous record of 33 world records (26 individual, 7 relay). , All but two of the records were set in a long-course (50-meter) pool; records that currently stand are indicated in bold . Currently, he holds seven world records, not including his records for most Olympic medals and most Olympic gold medals ever won by one person.  Mark Andrew Spitz (born February 10, 1950) is an American former competition swimmer , nine-time Olympic champion, and former world record-holder in seven events. He won seven gold medals at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, an achievement surpassed only by Michael Phelps , who won eight golds at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. Spitz set new world records in all seven events in which he competed in 1972, a record that still stands. Since the year 1900, no other swimmer has gained so great a percentage of all the medals awarded for Olympic events held in a single Games. , Between 1968 and 1972, Spitz won nine Olympic golds plus a silver and a bronze, five Pan American golds, 31 Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) titles, and eight National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) titles. During those years, he set 35 world records, but two were in trials and unofficial.   With his seven-gold medal performance at Munich in 1972, he was the most decorated athlete in the history of the Olympic Games until Michael Phelp's eight-gold medal performance at Beijing 36 years later in 2008. He was named World Swimmer of the Year in 1969, 1971 and 1972 by Swimming World Magazine . He was the third athlete to win nine Olympic gold medals . , , , Spitz was born in Modesto, California , the first of three children  of Arnold and Lenore (Smith) Spitz. His family is Jewish, the grandparents left Hungary after World War II.    When he was two years old, Spitz's family moved to Honolulu, Hawaii, where he swam at Waikiki beach every day. "You should have seen that little boy dash into the ocean. He'd run like he was trying to commit suicide." Lenore Spitz told a reporter for Time (April 12, 1968).  At age six his family returned to Sacramento, California , and he began to compete at his local swim club. At age nine, he was training at Arden Hills Swim Club in Sacramento with swimming coach Sherm Chavoor , who mentored seven Olympic medal winners including Spitz. , Before he was 10, Spitz held 17 national age-group records, and one world record. [ citation needed ] At 14 his family moved to Santa Clara so Spitz could train with coach George F. Haines of the Santa Clara Swim Club . From 1964 to 1968 Mark trained with Haines at SCHS and Santa Clara High School . During his four years there, Mark held national high school records in every stroke and in every distance [ citation needed ] . It was a remarkable and unprecedented achievement. In 1966 at age 16 he won the 100-meter butterfly at the AAU national championships, the first of his 24 AAU titles. The following year Mark set his first world record at a small California meet in the 400-meter freestyle with a time of 4:10.60, and emerged on the world swimming stage.  , The 1965 Maccabiah Games was his first international competition. At age 15 in Tel Aviv, Spitz, won four gold medals and was named the most outstanding athlete.  , He returned to Israel in 1969 following the Mexico Olympics to again compete in the Maccabiah Games. This time he won six gold medals.  He was again named outstanding athlete of the Games.  , In 1985 Spitz lit a torch to open the Maccabiah Games.  , In 2005 he was a member of the U.S. delegation at the 17th Maccabiah Games. He spoke at the JCC Maccabiah Games Opening Ceremonies, which was held in Richmond, Virginia. The Weinstein JCC in Richmond was one of the Host JCC's for the 2005 games with over 1,000 teenagers participating in various sports, including swimming. , In 1967 he won five gold medals at the 1967 Pan American Games , thereby setting a record that lasted until 2007 when Brazilian swimmer, Thiago Pereira , won six golds at the XV Pan American Games in Rio de Janeiro. , Holder of ten world records already, Spitz predicted brashly he would win six golds at the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City. However, he won only two team golds: the 4×100-meter freestyle relay in 3:31.70, and the 4×200-meter freestyle relay in 7:52.33.  In addition, Spitz finished second in the 100-meter butterfly in 56.40 seconds. In this event he was beaten by fellow American Doug Russell by a half second, despite holding the world record and having beaten Russell the previous ten times they had swum against each other that year.  Russell did briefly match Spitz's world record in late August 1967, holding the record equally with Spitz for five days before Spitz regained it solely on October 2, 1967. As a result of being beaten by Russell, Spitz did not get to swim in the 4×100-meter medley relay, which gave Russell his second gold medal and the USA team another world record performance. , Disappointed in his 1968 Olympic performance, Spitz decided in January 1969 to attend Indiana University  to train with legendary Indiana Hoosiers swimming coach Doc Counsilman ,  who was also his Olympic coach in Mexico City. He called choosing Indiana and Counsilman "the biggest decision of my life (and) the best."  While at Indiana, Spitz won eight individual NCAA titles. In 1971 he won the James E. Sullivan Award as the top amateur athlete in the United States. Spitz also set a number of world records during the U.S. Olympic Swim Trials held in Chicago's Portage Park in 1972. , He was nicknamed "Mark the Shark" by his teammates. , At the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich (West Germany), Spitz was back to maintain his bid for the six gold medals. He did even more, winning seven Olympic gold medals. Further, Spitz set a new world record in each of the seven events – 100-meter freestyle (51.22), 200-meter freestyle (1:52.78), 100-meter butterfly (54.27), 200-meter butterfly (2:00.70), 4×100-meter freestyle relay (3:26.42), 4x200-meter freestyle relay (7:35.78), and 4×100-meter medley relay (3:48.16). Originally Spitz was reluctant to swim the 100-meter freestyle fearing a less than gold medal finish. Minutes before the race he confessed on the pool deck to ABC 's Donna de Varona , "I know I say I don't want to swim before every event but this time I'm serious. If I swim six and win six, I'll be a hero. If I swim seven and win six, I'll be a failure." Spitz won by half a stroke in a world-record time of 51.22 seconds.  , Spitz is one of five Olympians to win nine or more career gold medals : Larisa Latynina , Paavo Nurmi and Carl Lewis also have nine;  only swimmer Michael Phelps has won more with 18.  Spitz's record of seven gold medals in a single Olympics was not surpassed until Michael Phelps at the 2008 Summer Olympics . , During the Munich Massacre by Palestinian terrorists in the 1972 Olympics, Israeli racewalker Shaul Ladany awakened and alerted American track coach Bill Bowerman , who called for the U.S. Marines to come and protect American Jewish Olympians swimmer Spitz and javelin thrower Bill Schmidt .      , Following the Munich Olympics, Spitz retired from competition even though he was still only 22 years old. , In 1999 Spitz ranked No. 33 on ESPN SportsCentury 50 Greatest Athletes , the only aquatic athlete to make the list.  , At age 41, Spitz attempted a comeback for the 1992 Summer Olympics after film maker Bud Greenspan offered him a million dollars if he succeeded in qualifying. Filmed by Greenspan's cameras, Spitz did not beat the qualifying limit, despite his times being nearly as good as (and in some cases better than) his medal-winning times 20 years earlier. He was two seconds slower than the requisite qualifying time at the Olympic trials. Dara Torres made her successful Olympic comeback for the 2008 Summer Games, at the same age as Spitz. , After his retirement from competitive swimming at age 22, he was managed by the William Morris Agency , which tried to get him into show business while his name was still familiar due to his athletic success. , A poster featuring Spitz wearing his swimsuit and seven gold medals made him the hottest pin-up since Betty Grable .  , In 1973–74, Spitz appeared on TV's The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson and The Sonny and Cher Comedy Hour . On the TV drama Emergency! , he portrayed Pete Barlow, who accidentally shoots his wife (played by Spitz's wife, Suzy). He also appeared briefly on the The Dean Martin Celebrity Roast of then-Governor of California Ronald Reagan in September 1973. , Spitz went to work for ABC Sports in 1976 and worked on many sports presentations, including coverage of the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal and the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles.  In 1985 he appeared as a TV announcer in Challenge of a Lifetime . He continued as a broadcaster for some time, but within a few years, he was hardly seen as a public figure  except perhaps as a commentator for swimming events like the 2004 Summer Olympics . Instead Spitz focused on his real estate company in Beverly Hills and hobbies such as sailing.  , In 2006 he received critical praise [ citation needed ] for his narration of Freedom's Fury , a Hungarian documentary about the Olympic water polo team's famous Blood in the Water match against Russia during the Revolution of 1956 —considered the most famous match in water polo history . The film was executive produced by Quentin Tarantino and Lucy Liu , and made its debut at the Tribeca Film Festival . , He appeared in an ad for the California Milk Advisory Board. One of his print advertisements featured the caption "I always drink it-is something I like to do. I want to be loved by the mothers." , In 1974 he was in a number of Schick razors commercials.  In 1998 he appeared with Evel Knievel in a TV commercial for PlayStation . , In 2004 he appeared in a TV commercial for Sprint PCS.  Then in November 2007, Spitz made a cameo appearance on Amanda Beard 's first television commercial (for GoDaddy) featuring her own seven Olympic medals (won between 1996–2004). The ad was entitled "Shock".  Also, in 2007 he appeared in the infomercial for the "Orbitrek Elite" fitness workout.  , He appeared in a commercial for Lear Capital, a gold investment company. (at 8:13 and 15:42 on a video at http://www.stanpredicts.com/media.php dated February 12, 2011, but the commercial was edited out of the version labeled "Episode 1: Will Massive Amount [ sic ] Of Oil Be Discovered In Israel?") , In 2012 Spitz appeared in a commercial for Ageless Male, a testosterone supplement. , When Spitz returned from the Olympics, he began dating Suzy Weiner, a UCLA theater student and part-time model, who also was the daughter of one of his father's business acquaintances.   Less than a year after the Munich Olympics, they were married on May 6, 1973,  in a traditional Jewish service at the Beverly Hills Hotel.  They have two sons, Matthew (born October 1981) and Justin (born September 1991). Justin currently will be a senior at Stanford University , and was a member of the swim team.    , From 1964 to 1968 Spitz attended Santa Clara High School. [ citation needed ] After graduating he went on to Indiana University .  At Indiana University from 1968 to 1972, he was a pre-dental student and member of Phi Kappa Psi Fraternity. Time magazine asked him if he wanted to return to dental school after the Olympics. "I always wanted to be a dentist from the time I was in high school, and I was accepted to dental school in the spring of 1972. I was planning to go, but after the Olympics there were other opportunities. I did some television and speaking engagements, and things just went from there."  , In 1972, soon after his return to the United States, Spitz landed several lucrative corporate endorsement contracts. He earned about $7 million in a two-year period.  However, as the memory of his feats receded, so did his endorsement and promotional deals. As his endorsements faded he started a successful real-estate company in Beverly Hills. He bought a Ferrari and says he made more than $1 million. [ citation needed ] "A million dollars in 1972 would be equivalent to more than $10 million today," Spitz said. "I did very well, thank you very much."  "I would say I was a pioneer. There wasn't anyone who'd gone to the Olympics before me who capitalized the same way on opportunity. It depends on timing, it depends on hype, it depends on the economy, and most importantly, it depends on looks. I mean, I've never seen a magazine of uglies. That's our society. I'm not saying it's right. That's just the facts."  , Per his official website, Spitz is self-employed as a corporate spokesperson and motivational speaker. However, Sports Yahoo! lists his occupation as a stock broker and motivational speaker.  According to a recent interview "Spitz became a stockbroker in 2002 and has since moved into private equity. He is now also dabbling in the "water business," as he calls it, and is in negotiations to build a water-bottling facility on aquifer-rich land that he and a business partner own.  , He has pursued various entrepreneurial projects with former NBA player Rick Barry . He travels the world delivering about 25 lectures a year. His biography, The Extraordinary Life of An Olympic Champion by Richard J. Foster, was released in July 2008.  , In July 2012 he endorsed Istanbul 's bid to host the 2020 Summer Olympics .  , His hobbies include sailing, skiing and collecting art.  (Print) , In an era when other swimmers, male and female, were shaving body hair, he swam with a moustache. When asked why he initially grew one he stated "I grew the moustache because a coach in college said I couldn't grow one."  Spitz said he originally grew the moustache as a form of rebellion against the clean-cut look imposed on him in college. "It took a long time to grow," he said.  It took four months to grow, but Spitz was proud of it, he decided the moustache was a "good-luck piece."  , Mark Spitz is quoted as saying, "When I went to the Olympics, I had every intention of shaving the moustache off, but I realized I was getting so many comments about it—and everybody was talking about it—that I decided to keep it. I had some fun with a Russian coach who asked me if my moustache slowed me down. I said, 'No, as a matter of fact, it deflects water away from my mouth, allows my rear end to rise and make me bullet-shaped in the water, and that's what had allowed me to swim so great.' He's translating as fast as he can for the other coaches, and the following year every Russian male swimmer had a moustache."  , According to a Sports Illustrated article, on February 14, 1988, after talking about shaving off his moustache for a year, he finally did. "He looked great with it, don't get me wrong," explained his wife Suzy, "but he looks so handsome without it."  , When he was asked why he shaved it off he responded "well, one, I'm not swimming anymore; two, it started to turn gray; and three, my wife had never seen me, nor my family, without the moustache . . . I'm happy [without it]."  He also commented on his moustache in a live, in-studio interview with KCRA host Mike TeSelle on June 14, 2008, Spitz commented that he no longer maintains his iconic moustache because it had become "too gray." , After retirement, Spitz was diagnosed with acid reflux disease , a condition from which his physician thinks he suffered throughout his career.  "During my Olympic training, I attributed the symptoms [of acid reflux] to an overexposure to chlorine and eating too soon before and after swimming," says Spitz. "It wasn't until the symptoms began to get in the way of my 1976 Olympic broadcasting career in Montreal, which was four years after retirement that I suspected something more serious must be happening." , He has also reported having high cholesterol and other chronic health issues.  "People don't believe that I have high cholesterol, but it's a fact," said Spitz. "I take medication every day because my doctor told me that diet and exercise are not enough to keep my cholesterol down." He is a paid spokesperson for Medco , a pharmacy benefit management company.  , In 1972, Spitz was accused of product placement during the medal ceremony. Following the 200-meter freestyle race Spitz arrived to obtain his gold medal barefoot and carrying his shoes. He put them down when the American national anthem, "The Star Spangled Banner" was played. After the anthem played, he picked up his shoes and waved to the crowd. The Soviets saw this as product placement. When questioned by the IOC, Spitz explained that the gesture was innocent, the shoes were old and he was not paid. The IOC cleared him of any wrongdoing.  , Spitz felt snubbed by not being asked to attend the 2008 Summer Olympics to watch Michael Phelps attempt to break his seven gold medal record. In an article, he is quoted as saying, "I never got invited. You don't go to the Olympics just to say, I am going to go. Especially because of who I am. . . . I am going to sit there and watch Michael Phelps break my record anonymously? That's almost demeaning to me. It is not almost—it is."  , Spitz has stated that he has no hard feelings towards Phelps. He is, however, unhappy that he was not invited to the 2008 Summer Olympics. As a result, Spitz refused to attend the games.  "They voted me one of the top five Olympians of all time. Some of them are dead. But they invited the other ones to go to the Olympics, but not me," he said. "Yes, I am a bit upset about it."  , However, on August 14, 2008 Spitz appeared on NBC's Today Show where he clarified his statement and his pride in Michael Phelps: , It's about time that somebody else takes the throne. And I'm very happy for him. I really, truly am...I was working with a corporate sponsor who elected not to bring their US contingent over to China, and they piled on more work for me here in the United States, which was great. So I wasn't able to get to the Olympics and watch Michael in the first couple of days. And they thought, some of these reporters, that I was supposed to be invited by some entity, and I told them that that wasn't really the case, that doesn't happen that way. And so, I'm sort of disappointed that I wasn't there, but, you know, that interview somehow took a different turn, and I've done hundreds and hundreds of them and I've been true to form about the way I feel about Michael, and he's doing a great job for the United States and inspiring a lot of great performances by the other team members.  , Also on August 14, 2008, in an interview aired on Los Angeles KNBC-4's morning news show, Today in L.A. , Spitz was quoted saying he does believe that, "Michael Phelps is the greatest Olympic athlete ever."  , On August 15, 2008, as part of an interview on NBC, Spitz said that he felt Phelps' performance in the 100 fly in Beijing was "epic". Spitz paid this compliment to Phelps just two hours after his record-tying seventh gold medal during a live joint interview with Bob Costas : , You know, Bob and Michael, I wondered what I was going to say at this monumental time, when it would happen and who I would say it to, and of course I thought I was going to say it to you for some time now. But, it's the word that comes to mind, "epic". What you did tonight was epic, and it was epic for the whole world to see how great you really are. I never thought for one moment that you were out of that race and contention, because I watched you at Athens win the race by similar margins, and 18 months ago at the World's by similar margins. And, you know, that is a tribute to your greatness. And now the whole world knows. We are so proud of you Michael here in America, and we are so proud of you and the way that you handle yourself, and you represent such an inspiration to all the youngsters around the world. You know, you weren't born when I did what I did, and I'm sure that I was a part of your inspiration, and I take that as a full compliment. And they say that you judge one's character by the company you keep, and I'm happy to keep company with you. And you have a tremendous responsibility for all those people that you are going to inspire over the next number of years, and I know that you will wear the crown well. Congratulations, Mike.  , On April 18, 2015 at the Laureus World Sports Awards Ceremony in Shanghai Spitz said he had been sent an email posted by Omega that had said Phelps had lost the 100m butterfly final. He also said that Phelps is still the greatest swimmer in the world, with or without that medal.  , Mark Spitz has been consistent in criticism of both swimming's world bodies, FINA and the IOC, in their incomplete attempts to keep drugs out of the sport. He has felt that not enough has been done to monitor and encourage drug-free participation. In 1998 he criticized FINA for its "embarrassing" attempts to stamp out drug abuse, urging them to test for all known drugs. In September 1999 Spitz said the IOC had the technology to test for a plethora of drugs but was refusing to do so because of some IOC member protests.  , During a radio interview in Australia, Spitz was quoted as saying "They don't want to test for everything because there's tremendous pressure from the television networks because they want the television to have athletic competitions with the world record holders there for the finals. They want the medals not to be tainted in their value of accomplishment by winning them, and it's all about ratings and commercial selling of time and about money. And an International Olympic Committee has got their hand in the pockets of the network television people, so there's a tremendous conflict of interest in what they should do and what they're doing."  , In August 2008, the Los Angeles Times reported, that Spitz continued to discuss drug testing and was saying "the IOC has sponsors who demand a good show. Television pays the IOC for the rights to that good show, and its sponsors want that too. Drug news and drug distractions are not a good show. People are not going to tune in to see athletes have their medals taken away from them."  , ,  Matthew Nicholas Biondi (born October 8, 1965) is an American former competition swimmer , eleven-time Olympic medalist, and former world record-holder in five events. Biondi competed in the Summer Olympic Games in 1984 , 1988 and 1992 , winning a total of eleven medals (eight gold, two silver and one bronze). During his career, he set thee individual world records in the 50-meter freestyle and four in the 100-meter freestyle. , At the 1988 Olympic Games in Seoul, Biondi won five gold medals, setting world records in the 50-meter freestyle and three relay events. , Biondi is a member of the International Swimming Hall of Fame and the United States Olympic Hall of Fame . , , , Biondi started his aquatics career as a swimmer and water polo player in his hometown of Moraga, California . As he moved into his teens, his incredible abilities as a sprint swimmer began to emerge. Though he did not start swimming year-round until he started at Campolindo High School , by his senior year Biondi was the top schoolboy sprinter in America with a national high school record of 20.40 seconds in the 50-yard freestyle. He accepted a scholarship to attend the University of California, Berkeley , to swim and play water polo, and enrolled in 1983. In his freshman year, he played on Berkeley's NCAA championship water polo team, and made the consolation finals at the 1984 NCAA swimming championships. , In the summer of 1984, Biondi surprised the swimming community by qualifying for a spot on the U.S. 4×100 meter freestyle relay at the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics . The team won the gold medal in a world record time. Upon returning to Berkeley, Biondi once again played on an NCAA champion water polo team in the fall, and during in the winter of 1985, he won the first of his eight individual swimming titles at the NCAA championships. , Biondi was selected as the NCAA Swimmer of the Year in 1985, 1986, and 1987, and he set several American and NCAA records. , Biondi set the first of his twelve individual swimming world records in 1985. He was the first man to swim the 100-meter freestyle faster than 49 seconds, and by 1988 he owned the ten fastest times swum in that event. He won a total 24 U.S. Championships in the 50, 100, and 200 meter freestyle events, as well as the 100 butterfly. In two World Championships (1986 and 1991), Biondi won 11 medals including six gold. During his career, he was a finalist for the James E. Sullivan Award , the UPI Sportsman of the Year, the U.S. Olympic Committee Sportsman of the Year, and selected twice as the Swimming World magazine Male Swimmer of the World, in 1986 and 1988. , Biondi was involved in perhaps one of the oddest defeats of any competitor at the 1988 Seoul Olympics . In the 100-meter butterfly final race, he was caught between strokes as he approached the finishing wall. He chose to glide rather than take another stroke, and Biondi was edged out by Anthony Nesty of Surinam by just one one-hundredth (0.01) of second. , Biondi still won five gold medals, one silver medal, and one bronze medal in the 1988 Olympics, breaking the world records in four of those victories: three in relay races, and one in the 50 meter freestyle , taking just 22.14 seconds for this swim. This was the third time that he had broken or equalled the existing 50 meter freestyle world record.   , Biondi's time in the 100 meter freestyle final was the only swim below 49.00 seconds of the competition, and he set a new Olympic record of 48.63 seconds, the second fastest swim at this distance in history.  , At the 1992 Olympics in Barcelona, Biondi won two more gold medals in relays and a silver in the 50 meter freestyle. , Biondi competed at the World Championships in 1986 and 1991, winning six gold medals. , In 1986, he won three gold medals, one silver and three bronzes to set a record of seven medals at one World Championship meet. (This record has since been matched by Michael Phelps .) , Biondi graduated from the University of California, Berkeley , in 1988 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Economy of Industrialized Societies (PEIS). , Biondi married Kirsten Metzger in her home state of Hawaii in 1995. They have three children: their sons Nathaniel (Nate), born in 1998, and Lucas, born in 2002; and their daughter Makena, born in 2007. , Kirsten Biondi persuaded her husband to continue his education, and he earned his master's degree in education in 2000 at Lewis and Clark College in Portland, Oregon.  , In recent years, Biondi has worked as a school teacher and swimming coach in Hawaii. As of 2012, he has been hired to teach math and coach at Sierra Canyon School in the Los Angeles neighborhood of Chatsworth .  , Biondi has become active within the masters swimming community, launching an annual masters competition that bears his name. The Matt Biondi Masters Classic was held for the first time on March 24, 2014, in Simi Valley, California. The competition is a one-day, short course yards meet held in conjunction with Biondi's masters club, the Conejo Valley Multisport Masters.  , ,  Ryan Steven Lochte ( / ˈ l ɒ k t i / , LOCK -tee ; born August 3, 1984) is an American competitive swimmer and an 11-time Olympic medalist (five gold, three silver, three bronze). His seven individual Olympic medals ranks near the top in men's swimming. As part of the American team, he holds the world record in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay (long course). Individually, he currently holds the world record in the 100-meter individual medley, 200-meter individual medley (long and short course), and the 400-meter individual medley (short course). , Lochte's success has earned him the World Swimmer of the Year Award and the American Swimmer of the Year Award twice. He has also been named the FINA Swimmer of the Year three times. He has won a total of 77 medals in major international competition, 49 gold, 17 silver, and 11 bronze spanning the Olympics, the World , Pan American , and Pan Pacific Championships. , Lochte specializes in the backstroke and individual medley, but is also a freestyle and butterfly swimmer. He is noted for the speed and distance he attains while kicking underwater. Lochte is also known for his dominance in the short course format (25-yard and 25-meter long swimming pools). , , , Lochte was born in Rochester, New York , the son of Ileana "Ike" ( née Aramburu) and Steven R. Lochte.  His mother is of Spanish and Basque ancestry and was born and raised in Havana , while his father is of German , Dutch and English descent.  He has two older sisters, Kristin, and Megan, and two younger brothers, Devon, and Brandon. During his early childhood, his family lived in Canandaigua, New York , but moved to Florida so his father could coach swimming. Lochte was taught to swim at the age of five by both of his parents. Ryan was often kicked out of his father's swimming classes for misbehaving, which often included pulling other children's legs, blowing bubbles, and hiding at the other end of the pool. Lochte only began taking swimming seriously when he was a junior in high school.  Steve Lochte said, "I would send him to go shower when he was messing around. He spent more time in the showers than he did in the pool." At 14 years old, Ryan's loss at the Junior Olympics changed his attitude towards swimming: "I suddenly said, 'I'm sick of losing'. After that I trained hard and I never lost there again."  , Lochte attended the University of Florida and graduated in 2007, majoring in sport management .  As a member of the Florida Gators swimming and diving team, he swam for coach Gregg Troy in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) and Southeastern Conference (SEC) competition from 2004 to 2007. At Florida, Lochte was the NCAA Swimmer of the Year twice, a seven-time NCAA champion, a seven-time SEC champion, and a 24-time All-American .  At the 2006 NCAA Men's Swimming and Diving Championships , during his senior year, Lochte won national titles in all three of his individual events, setting U.S. Open and American records in the 200-yard individual medley and 200-yard backstroke.   He also broke Tom Dolan 's nearly decade-old NCAA record in the 400-yard individual medley.  , Lochte qualified for his first Olympics after finishing second to Michael Phelps in the 200-meter individual medley at the 2004 U.S. Olympic Team Trials.  He also qualified for the 4×200-meter freestyle relay team after finishing 4th in the 200-meter freestyle final.  At the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece, Lochte swam with Phelps, Klete Keller , and Peter Vanderkaay to upset the Australian team and capture the gold medal in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay. It was the first loss for the Australian team in six years.   He also narrowly edged out George Bovell and László Cseh in the 200-meter individual medley to win the silver medal behind Phelps.  , Later that year at the 2004 FINA Short Course World Championships in Indianapolis, Lochte won the silver medal in the 200-meter individual medley and the bronze in the 200-meter freestyle.   He also won the gold medal in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay with Chad Carvin , Dan Ketchum , and Justin Mortimer.  , At the 2005 World Aquatics Championships in Montreal, Lochte won the bronze medals in both the 200-meter backstroke and 200-meter individual medley.   In the 4×200-meter freestyle relay, Lochte teamed with Phelps, Vanderkaay, and Keller to win gold ahead of Canada and Australia.  , At the 2006 FINA Short Course World Championships in Shanghai, held just two weeks after the 2006 NCAA Championships, Lochte won three individual titles, one silver, and one bronze. He won the 200-meter individual medley and the 200-meter backstroke, setting new world records in both events.  He also set another world record in the 100-meter backstroke in the opening leg of the 4×100-meter medley relay, becoming the first man to complete the distance in under 50 seconds.  He won his third gold medal in the 400-meter individual medley, setting a new championship record.  , At the 2007 World Aquatics Championships in Melbourne, Australia, Lochte won his first individual gold medal at a long course world championship in the 200-meter backstroke against compatriot Aaron Peirsol , breaking Peirsol's world record and his seven-year winning streak in the event.  This was Lochte's first world record in a long course event.  A little more than 90 minutes later, Lochte went on to set a world record in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay with Phelps, Keller, and Vanderkaay.  He also won silver medals in the 100-meter backstroke, the 200-meter individual medley, and the 400-meter individual medley, making his medal total for the meet second only to Phelps.    , Within a week of the world championships, Lochte competed in the annual Mutual of Omaha Duel in the Pool where he again beat Peirsol. In the 100-meter backstroke, he broke Peirsol's other seven-year winning streak in the shorter of the backstroke races, edging out Peirsol by 0.06 seconds.  , At the 2008 U.S. Olympic Team Trials in Omaha, Nebraska, Lochte competed in six individual events and qualified to swim in three individual events at the 2008 Summer Olympics . Also, with his third place finish in the 200-meter freestyle, Lochte was ensured a spot on the 4×200-meter freestyle relay. In his first event, Lochte finished second to Phelps in the 400-meter individual medley.  Both Lochte and Phelps finished below Phelps' previous world record in the event.  In his second event, the 200-meter freestyle, Lochte finished in third place behind Phelps and Vanderkaay.  Less than 30 minutes after the 200-meter freestyle final, Lochte then competed in the 100-meter backstroke final, finishing in third place behind Aaron Peirsol and Matt Grevers .  The next day, Lochte competed in the 100-meter freestyle but withdrew after the semifinals.  Two days later, in the 200-meter backstroke, Lochte finished in second place behind Peirsol, who equalled Lochte's world record.  Less than 30 minutes after the 200-meter backstroke final, Lochte finished second to Phelps in the 200-meter individual medley.  , In his first event at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Lochte won the bronze medal in the 400-meter individual medley behind Phelps and Cseh. His time of 4:08.09 was two seconds slower than the time he swam in Omaha.  In his second event, Lochte swam the second leg of the 4×200-meter freestyle relay. With Phelps, Ricky Berens , and Vanderkaay, he won his first gold medal and set his first world record as the American team finished first with a time of 6:58.56. The Americans were the first team to break the seven-minute mark in the relay, and broke the previous record, set in Melbourne, Australia, by more than four and a half seconds.  In his third event, the 200-meter backstroke, Lochte won his first individual gold medal and set the world record, beating defending champion Peirsol.  Twenty-seven minutes after the final of the 200-meter backstroke, Lochte went on to win the bronze in the 200-meter individual medley, finishing behind Phelps and Cseh.  , At the 2009 National Championships, the selection meet for the 2009 World Aquatics Championships , Lochte won individual titles in the 200 and 400-meter individual medley.   Lochte also qualified to swim in the 4×100 and 4×200-meter freestyle relay.   In the 200-meter backstroke final, Lochte placed second behind Aaron Peirsol , and lost his world record he set in Beijing when Peirsol recorded a time of 1:53.08.  , In his first event at the 2009 World Aquatics Championships in Rome, Lochte swam the second leg of the men's 4×100-meter freestyle relay in a time of 47.03. He earned a gold medal in the event along with Phelps, Matt Grevers , and Nathan Adrian . The final time of 3:09.21 was a championship record and just ahead of Russia (3:09.52) and France (3:09.89).  With Phelps not competing in the 200 or 400-meter individual medley at these championships, Lochte won the gold in both events. In the 200-meter individual medley, Lochte broke Phelps' world record of 1:54.23 with a time of 1:54.10.  In the 200-meter backstroke, Lochte won the bronze medal, finishing behind Peirsol and Ryosuke Irie of Japan.  In the 4×200-meter freestyle relay final, Lochte swam the anchor leg in 1:44.46. Combined with Phelps, Berens, and David Walters , Lochte won the gold medal and his team broke the previous world record by one-hundredth of a second with a time of 6:58.55.  , At the 2010 National Championships, the selection meet for the 2010 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships and the 2011 World Aquatics Championships , Lochte won individual titles in the 200-meter backstroke, 200-meter individual medley, and the 400-meter individual medley.    He also placed second in the 100 and 200-meter freestyle.   Lochte's win in the 200-meter individual medley was the first time he defeated Phelps in a major national or international meet.  , At the 2010 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships in Irvine, California, Lochte won a total of six gold medals. His wins included the 200-meter backstroke, 200-meter freestyle, the 200 and 400-meter individual medley, and the 4×100 and 4×200-meter freestyle relay.  , At the 2010 FINA Short Course World Championships in Dubai, Lochte became the first individual in history to win seven medals at the Short Course Worlds and was the only person to set a world record individually since body-length swimsuits were banned.  In Dubai, Lochte won gold in the 200-meter backstroke, 200-meter freestyle, all the individual medleys (100, 200, 400), and the 4×100-meter medley relay. He also won silver in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay. Lochte's world records in Dubai came on consecutive days, first in the 400-meter individual medley, then in the 200-meter individual medley. Both world records were broken by considerable margins.  , At year's end, Lochte was named the World Swimmer of the Year and American Swimmer of the Year by Swimming World Magazine .  He was also named FINA male swimmer of the year for 2010 by FINA Aquatics World Magazine .   2010 saw Lochte win a total of 13 international medals, 12 of them gold. , At the 2011 World Aquatics Championships , Lochte won a total of six medals, five golds and one bronze. Lochte won his first medal, a bronze, in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay for his contributions in the heats. In the heats, Lochte recorded a time of 48.28, off from the 47.98 he recorded last year in Irvine. In his second event, the 200-meter freestyle, Lochte won the gold with a time of 1:44.44, finishing ahead of Michael Phelps who recorded a time of 1:44.79.  It was Lochte's first gold in the event in the long course World Championships. Lochte won the 200-meter individual medley event in a world record time of 1:54.00, finishing ahead of Michael Phelps time of 1:54.16.  In the 200-meter backstroke, Lochte dominated the competition with a time of 1:52.96, over a second ahead of second place finisher Ryosuke Irie . Shortly after completing the 200-meter backstroke, Lochte competed in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay with Michael Phelps , Peter Vanderkaay , and Ricky Berens . Swimming the anchor leg in 1:44.56, Lochte was able to make up a deficit from France for the win. The final time for the relay was 7:02.67.  In his last event, the 400-meter individual medley, Lochte continued his dominance with a win in a time of 4:07.13. His closest competitor, Tyler Clary , finished in 4:11.17, over four seconds behind.  , Lochte said he was pleased with his performance at the 2011 World Aquatics Championships but feels that he can improve his times before the 2012 Olympics. "Getting five gold medals is definitely great, but the times that I went, I know I could go a lot faster," he said. "There are a lot of places in my races that I messed up on that I could have changed and gone faster, but I guess I have a whole year to make sure I have those perfect swims."  , At year's end, Lochte was named the World Swimmer of the Year and American Swimmer of the Year by Swimming World Magazine , and defended his titles from 2010.  He was also named FINA male swimmer of the year for 2011 by FINA Aquatics World Magazine , and also defended this title.  , At the 2012 United States Olympic Trials , the qualifying meet for the 2012 Summer Olympics , Lochte qualified for the Olympic team by finishing first in the 200-meter backstroke and 400-meter individual medley, and second in the 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter individual medley. Lochte also narrowly missed a spot competing in the individual 100-meter butterfly by finishing third. , At the Olympics in London , Lochte won his first gold medal of the games in the 400-meter individual medley with a time of 4:05.18.   Commenting on his first medal of the 2012 Olympics and the head-to-head competition with fellow American and world record holder, Michael Phelps , Lochte acknowledged Phelps' greatness while positioning himself as the best today. , Lochte won a silver medal with the U.S. 4×100-meter freestyle relay team, losing out to the French team with a 47.74 split, a full second slower than the French finishing swimmer Yannick Agnel and six tenths of a second slower than teammate Phelps. , Lochte placed fourth in the 200-meter freestyle race. He followed that performance, however, by winning gold with the U.S. 4×200-meter freestyle team. Lochte swam the first split and provided the U.S. team a commanding lead that it never relinquished.  , On the sixth night of the Games, Lochte swam his last two finals, with only 30 minutes in between.  First, he won the bronze medal in the 200m backstroke , finishing behind compatriot Tyler Clary and Japan's Ryosuke Irie . His time of 1.53.94 tied the time he swam four years ago when he won the gold medal at the 2008 Games, which was then a world record. Half an hour later, Lochte took on Phelps in the 200m individual medley . He won a silver medal behind Phelps in the last head-to-head race of their careers, as Phelps retired after the Games.  This was the third consecutive Olympics in which Lochte won a medal in the 200m individual medley. , His five medals brought his total to 11 Olympic medals, tied for second among male swimmers with compatriots Mark Spitz and Matt Biondi , behind only Phelps.  His seven individual Olympic medals are the second-most in men's Olympic swimming, surpassing Zoltán Halmay and Mark Spitz, who won six. , Lochte has announced he intends to continue swimming through the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.  He is also considering exploring new events.  , In his first event at the 2013 World Aquatics Championships in Barcelona, Lochte combined with Nathan Adrian , Anthony Ervin , and Jimmy Feigen in the 4x100-meter freestyle relay , with the team finishing behind France. Swimming the second leg, Lochte recorded a split of 47.80, and the team finished with a final time of 3:11.44. In his first individual event, the 200-meter freestyle , Lochte was unsuccessful in defending his title and placed fourth in the final with a time of 1:45.64. Lochte won his first individual medal of the competition, a gold, by defending his title in the 200-meter individual medley , recording a time of 1:54.98. The day following his 200 medley gold, Lochte also defended his title in the 200-meter backstroke , recording a time of 1:53.79 in the final. On the same day of winning the 200-meter backstroke (and swimming in the 100-meter butterfly semifinals where he set a personal best and qualified for the final), Lochte combined with Conor Dwyer , Charlie Houchin , and Ricky Berens , to win the 4x200-meter freestyle relay. Swimming the second leg, Lochte recorded a split of 1:44.98, and the team finished with a final time of 7:01.72. In winning the 4x200 relay, Lochte became the first swimmer to win 5 consecutive gold medals at the World Championships in the 4x200-meter freestyle relay (while also being the first swimmer, along with compatriot Michael Phelps, to win the 4x200 m freestyle relay Olympic Gold Medal on 3 successive occasions). , The following day, Lochte competed in the 100-meter butterfly and finished 6th in the final with a time of 51.58, just off his semifinal time of 51.48. , Before the 2012 Summer Olympics , Fortune magazine estimated that Lochte earned $2.3 million from endorsement deals with Speedo , Mutual of Omaha , Gillette , Gatorade , Procter and Gamble , Ralph Lauren , Nissan and AT&T .  Lochte has also appeared in commercials for the Nissan Altima and been featured on the covers of Vogue , Time , Men's Health and Men's Journal .  , NPR named Lochte as their "platonic ideal of bro -dom".  , Actor and comedian Seth MacFarlane parodied Lochte in the 2012 season premiere of Saturday Night Live ,  after which Lochte said he would be open to doing a cameo appearance on the show.  , Lochte appeared as an exaggerated version of himself in the 30 Rock episode "Stride of Pride," which aired October 18, 2012. He also had a guest appearance on 90210 in late 2012.  Additionally, he showed interest in being a participant on Dancing with the Stars .  , What Would Ryan Lochte Do? began airing April 21, 2013 on E!  and was cancelled after only one season, five weeks later.  , Lochte's public persona and character have inspired a series of unflattering internet memes .  , Despite rumors in the Australian press linking Lochte with Australian swimmer Blair Evans ,    Lochte's mother, Ileana, confirmed to Us Weekly in a July 28, 2012, interview that her son was "too busy" to be in a relationship and stated that it "wouldn't be fair to the girl."  , On August 1, 2012, Lochte trademarked his personal catchphrase , "Jeah," with the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office .  , ,  For his father, also an Olympian, see Gary Hall, Sr. , Gary Wayne Hall, Jr. (born September 26, 1974) is an American former competition swimmer who represented the United States at the 1996 , 2000 , and 2004 Olympics and won ten Olympic medals (five gold, three silver, two bronze). He is a former world record-holder in two relay events. Hall is well known for his "pro-wrestling like" antics before a competition; frequently strutting onto the pool deck in boxing shorts and robe, shadow boxing and flexing for the audience. , , , His father, Gary Hall, Sr. , also competed in three Olympics as a swimmer (1968, 1972 and 1976). His maternal uncle, Charles Keating III , swam in the 1976 Olympics, and his maternal grandfather, Charles Keating Jr. , was a national swimming champion in the 1940s. , In his first Olympics at the age of 21 in Atlanta, Hall had only 6 years of swimming experience yet he already had a well-known rivalry with Russia's Alexander Popov . Hall and his teammates dominated the relay events, but Popov beat Hall in the individual events. The rivalry grew more bitter than ever. Hall responded by coming to his next event in leather motorcycle pants and executing his usual shadow boxing and flexing routine. Eventually, Hall lost in the individual 100 m freestyle and 50 m freestyle to Popov. , Hall won two individual silvers and two team relay golds at the games, including helping set the world record in both the 400 m freestyle and medley relays. , In 1998, Hall was suspended by FINA for marijuana use.  , In 1999, he was diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes , commonly referred to as childhood or juvenile diabetes. Upon his diagnosis, Hall struggled with the possibilities and the effects he knew the medical condition would have on his life. He took a short hiatus from swimming, but returned to compete in the 2000 U.S. Olympic Trials. There he won the 50 m freestyle and placed second in the 100 m freestyle . His 50 m time of 21.76 seconds set a new American record, beating the ten-year-old record set by Tom Jager . , Hall's success continued in the 2000 Summer Olympics . He won the gold medal in the individual 50 m freestyle , tying with his fellow American Anthony Ervin , and won the gold and silver in the team relays. He also won the bronze in the individual 100 meter freestyle race. , Prior to the 4x100 m freestyle relay, Hall posted on his blog: "My biased opinion says that we will smash them (Australia's 4x100m team) like guitars. Historically the U.S. has always risen to the occasion. But the logic in that remote area of my brain says it won't be so easy for the United States to dominate the waters this time." Hall swam last in the team against Australian Ian Thorpe . Thorpe had a better start and came up a body length in front of Hall. Hall managed a lead but Thorpe fought back, inflicting America's first ever Olympic defeat in the event. The Australian team responded to Hall's remarks after the race by playing air guitar on the pool deck. Hall recalled the race, saying, “I don’t even know how to play the guitar...I consider it the best relay race I’ve ever been part of. I doff my cap to the great Ian Thorpe. He had a better finish than I had.”  , At the 2004 Summer Olympics , Hall again won the gold medal in 50 m freestyle . At 29, he became the oldest American male Olympic swimmer since 1924 when Duke Kahanamoku competed. Despite having swum the fastest 50 in the year leading up to the 2004 Summer Olympics , he was regarded as a long shot to medal in the 50 m freestyle. He also won a bronze medal for competing in the preliminary heat of the 4×100 meter freestyle relay. , Hall failed to qualify for the 2008 Olympic Team after finishing 4th in the 50 Meter Finals at the US Olympic Swimming Trials (Located in Omaha, Nebraska) on July 5, 2008. , The Race Club is a swimming club founded by Hall and his father, Gary Hall, Sr. The club, originally known as "The World Team," was designed to serve as a training group for elite swimmers across the world in preparation for the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games. To be able to train with the Race Club, one must either have been ranked in the top 20 in the world the past 3 calendar years or top 3 in their nation in the past year. The Race Club included such well known swimmers as Roland Mark Schoeman , Mark Foster , Ryk Neethling , Ricky Busquet and Therese Alshammar .  They were coached by University of Michigan coach Mike Bottom . , The Race Club offers various swimming camps, swim clinics, and swimming technique video recording year round for young swimmers at their Islamorada, Florida -based training center.  , In the summer of 2006, Hall's sister, Bebe Hall, was attacked by a blacktip reef shark near Islamorada , while she and Gary were spearfishing , an attack for which Bebe Hall needed 19 stitches .  Gary Hall repeatedly punched the shark and his sister shot a spear into it, after which the shark swam off. , Hall has long been one of competitive swimming's most colorful personalities. He often shadow-boxes before a race and is known for wearing a boxing robe in lieu of the usual warm-ups. His eccentricity has won him a great deal of fans, but what some perceive to be "showboating" has drawn substantial criticism. He is also an outspoken critic of performance enhancing drug use in swimming, and is one of the few prominent swimmers willing to publicly question the legitimacy of suspected individual accomplishments. In 2008, he compared International Swimming Hall of Fame inductee Amy Van Dyken to disgraced track & field athlete Marion Jones , noting they were both involved with the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative (BALCO) steroid scandal. [1]  Ian James Thorpe , OAM (born 13 October 1982) is an Australian swimmer who specialises in freestyle , but also competes in backstroke and the individual medley . He has won five Olympic gold medals, the most won by any Australian, and with three gold and two silver medals, was the most successful athlete at the 2000 Summer Olympics . At the 2001 World Aquatics Championships , he became the first person to win six gold medals in one World Championship.  In total, Thorpe has won eleven World Championship golds, the third-highest number of any swimmer.  Thorpe was the first person to have been named Swimming World Swimmer of the Year four times,   and was the Australian Swimmer of the Year from 1999 to 2003. His athletic achievements made him one of Australia's most popular athletes, and he was recognised as the Young Australian of the Year in 2000.  , At the age of 14, he became the youngest male ever to represent Australia,  and his victory in the 400 metre freestyle at the 1998 Perth World Championships made him the youngest ever individual male World Champion.  After that victory, Thorpe dominated the 400 m freestyle, winning the event at every Olympic, World, Commonwealth and Pan Pacific Swimming Championships until his break after the 2004 Olympics .  Aside from 13 individual long-course world records, Thorpe anchored the Australian relay teams, numbering the victories in the 4 × 100 m and the 4 × 200 m freestyle relays in Sydney , among his five relay world records. His wins in the 200 m and 400 m and his bronze in the 100 m freestyle in Athens have made him the only male to have won medals in the 100–200–400 combination.  , After the Athens Olympics, Thorpe took a year away from swimming, scheduling a return for the 2006 Commonwealth Games . However, he was forced to withdraw due to illness. Subsequent training camps were interrupted, and he announced his retirement in November 2006, citing waning motivation.  From early 2011, there was speculation about Thorpe's return to swimming, fuelled by people claiming to have seen him training. The speculations were substantiated when Thorpe spoke at a February 2011 press conference of his return to swimming after four years away, with the aim of competing in the 2012 London Olympic Games .   Thorpe competed at Australia's Olympic Trials in 2012, but failed to make the team. It was subsequently announced that he was targeting qualification for the 2013 World Championships in Barcelona  and later the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow  but was forced to abandon his plans due to a shoulder injury.  In 2014, he was presented with a Doctor of Letters from Macquarie University in recognition of his extraordinary contribution for the sport, philanthropy and Indigenous rights.  , , , Born in Sydney, Thorpe grew up in the suburb of Milperra and hailed from a sporting family.  His father Ken was a promising cricketer at junior level, representing Bankstown District Cricket Club in Sydney's district competition .    A talented batsman , he once topped the season's batting averages ahead of former Australian captain Bob Simpson . However, paternal pressure detracted from Ken's enjoyment of cricket, and he retired at the age of 26.  Thorpe's mother Margaret played A-grade netball ,   but he did not inherit his parents' ball skills.  His elder sister Christina was advised to take up swimming to strengthen a broken wrist, so by chance, the five-year-old Thorpe followed her into the pool.    Due to his unhappy experiences, Ken Thorpe regarded enjoyment as the most critical aspect of his children's participation in sport.  A large baby, Thorpe weighed 4.1 kg (9.0 lb) and measured 59 cm (1 ft 11 in) in length at birth.  , As a young child, Thorpe was sidelined by an allergy to chlorine .  As a result, he did not swim in his first race until a school carnival at the age of seven.  The allergy forced Thorpe to swim with his head out of the water; despite this ungainly technique, he won the race, primarily because of his significant size advantage.    Thorpe gradually overcame the ailment and progressed to the captaincy of New South Wales for the Australian Primary Schools Championships in 1994.  He subsequently won nine individual gold medals at the New South Wales Short Course Age Championships in September of the same year.  In 1995, Thorpe started his secondary education at East Hills Boys Technology High School   and switched coaches to swim alongside his sister under the tutelage of Doug Frost .  It was a busy year for the family; Christina was selected for the Australian team to compete at the 1995 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships in Atlanta .  Now six feet tall, Ian competed at his first Australian Age Championships, winning bronze medals in the 200 m and 400 m freestyle. He won all ten events at the New South Wales Age Championships.    , Thorpe competed at the 1996 Australian Age Championships in Brisbane , winning five gold, two silver and two bronze medals.  His times in the 400 m freestyle and 200 m backstroke qualified him for the Australian Championships,  which doubled as selection trials for the 1996 Atlanta Olympics . Frost knew that Thorpe had no realistic chance of making the top two in any event, which would have meant Olympic selection at only 13 years and six months. He sent Thorpe to Sydney merely to gain competition experience at senior national level.  As expected, Thorpe missed selection; he finished 23rd in the 400 m freestyle and 36th in the 200 m backstroke.  At the end of the year, Thorpe qualified for the Australian Short Course Championships. It was another chance to gain national selection, as the event served as the selection trials for the 1997 FINA World Swimming Championships (25 m) . Thorpe qualified in second place in the heats of the 400 m individual medley to reach his first national final.  However, he swam more slowly in the final and missed selection.  , At the New South Wales Championships in January 1997, Thorpe's time of 3 min 59.43 s in the 400 m was eight seconds faster than his previous personal best;  it made him the first 14-year-old to cover the distance in less than four minutes on Australian soil. Ranked fourth for the event countrywide,  Thorpe went into the Australian Championships in Adelaide as a serious contender for selection in the national team for the 1997 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships in Fukuoka , Japan. With a top-three finish and a specific qualifying time required for selection, Thorpe focused on the 400 m freestyle after injuries to world record holder Kieren Perkins and Daniel Kowalski ; both had won Olympic medals in the event. Thorpe went on to win bronze behind 16-year-old Queenslander Grant Hackett , setting a new personal best of 3 min 53.44 s.  The time was a world record for his age group and the race was the first of many battles with Hackett.  , Aged 14 years and 5 months, Thorpe became the 463rd  and youngest ever male to be selected for the Australian team,   surpassing John Konrads ' record by one month.  Frost said that Thorpe's selection catalysed his eventual focus on freestyle. Thorpe continued his good form at the Australian Age Championships. He contested all twelve events, winning ten individual gold and two bronze medals.  He set six Australian records in the process.   , In June 1997, two months before the Pan Pacific Championships , Thorpe required an appendix operation, which caused him to miss two weeks of training.  Upon reaching Japan, Thorpe placed fourth in his heat of the 200 m freestyle with a new personal best time of 1 min 51.46 s.  Thorpe's time was not enough to qualify for the final, but earned him selection in the 4 × 200 m freestyle relay team. Along with teammates Michael Klim , Ian van der Wal and Hackett, Thorpe claimed silver, making him the youngest ever Pan Pacific medalist.  In his first individual final at international level, Thorpe was fifth at the 300 m mark, but fought back to claim silver in the 400 m freestyle behind Hackett in a time of 3 min 49.64 s.     His finishing burst was to become a trademark, and his time would have been enough to win silver at the Atlanta Olympics .   In October 1997, a few days before his fifteenth birthday, Thorpe competed in qualifying trials in Brisbane for the 1998 World Aquatics Championships in Perth . Thorpe gained selection for the world championships by finishing fourth and second in the 200 m and 400 m freestyle respectively. He set new personal bests in both events.  , Thorpe's first international appearance in his home country, at the 1998 World Championships in Perth, began with the 4 × 200 m freestyle relay . Swimming the third leg after Klim and Hackett, Thorpe broke away from 200 m butterfly Olympic champion Tom Malchow to set a split time of 1 min 47.67 s, just 0.26 seconds slower than Klim's winning time in the 200 m final .  By the end of Thorpe's leg, the Australians were two seconds ahead of the world record pace, and three seconds ahead of the Americans, having extended the lead by two body lengths. Although anchorman Kowalski finished outside the world record,  it was the first time that Australia had won the event at the global level since 1956 .  Thorpe was ranked fourth in the world before the 400 m final , which Hackett led from the outset. Hackett established a comfortable 2.29 s lead over Thorpe by the 300 m mark, and although Thorpe reduced the margin to 1.53 s at the 350 m mark, Hackett led until Thorpe passed him on the final stroke.  Thorpe's time was the fourth fastest in history and made him the youngest ever male individual world champion, aged 15 years and 3 months.     , As a result of the media attention generated by his win on home soil, Thorpe received multiple offers for television commercials and was often surrounded by autograph hunters.  He became a high-profile supporter of the Children's Cancer Institute , after his sister Christina's future brother-in-law Michael Williams became gravely ill with cancer.   , Thorpe's next competition was in March at the Australian Championships in Melbourne, which were selection trials for the 1998 Commonwealth Games in Malaysia. Thorpe's improvement continued when he defeated Klim in the 200 m freestyle in 1 min 47.24 s, faster than Klim's winning time at the World Championship two months earlier.  Thorpe's time was a Commonwealth record  and with it, he secured his first national title. He then claimed the 400 m freestyle title from Hackett and clocked 50.36 s in the 100 m freestyle. His time earned silver in his first 100 m race at the national level, gaining him Commonwealth selection in three individual events.  , Thorpe's rise continued when the Australians arrived in Kuala Lumpur during September for the Commonwealth Games. Thorpe's first event was the 200 m freestyle, where he led throughout to record a time just one hundredth of a second outside Giorgio Lamberti 's world record.  He then combined with Klim, Kowalski and Matt Dunn in the 4 × 200 m freestyle relay to break the world record of the Unified Team set in 1992 by 0.09 s.  Thorpe's run ended when a personal best of 50.21 s in the 100 m freestyle was only sufficient for fourth place, but he returned to victory with the 4 × 100 m freestyle relay team.  He claimed a fourth gold in the 400 m freestyle, setting another personal best, just 0.55 s slower than Kieren Perkins' 1994 mark.      , Thorpe left school at the end of the year after completing Year 10 . His decision caused concerns that concentrating on swimming alone could lead to burn out.  Thorpe disagreed, pointing to his informal search for knowledge, stating that "Swimming is a small part of my life".  His impact in the swimming community was acknowledged when he became the youngest male swimmer to be named as the Swimming World Swimmer of the Year .  , 1999 began with heavy media expectations that Thorpe would inevitably break both 200 m and 400 m world records, given his continuing physical growth. The first opportunity came in late March at the 1999 Australian Championships in Brisbane, which doubled as a selection event for the 1999 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships . Thorpe again won the 400 m, but Perkins' record eluded him, this time by just 0.05 s.  Hackett turned the tables in the 200 m event, passing Thorpe in the final 50 m to win Thorpe's title.  Although both were outside Lamberti's mark, Hackett went on to break it the following night in a relay event.   Thorpe finished the Championships by continuing his improvement in the 100 m freestyle, posting a time of 49.98 s, his first under the 50 s barrier. The Australian team then travelled to Hong Kong for the 1999 World Short Course Championships , where Thorpe broke Lamberti's mark in the 200 m freestyle, the longest standing world record at the time. However, Hackett defeated him in the 400 m.   This was the start of a three-year phase where Thorpe was to set his 13 individual long course world records. He led the men's relay team to unprecedented success in relay events, scoring historic victories over the Americans. Thorpe was to peak in 2001 when he became the first person to win six gold medals at one world championships, setting three world records and helping Australia top the medal tally at a global meet for the first time since 1956. In this period, he was named Swimming World Swimmer of the Year three times.    , The 1999 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships were held in August at Sydney Olympic Park , and were viewed as a rehearsal for the 2000 Summer Olympics to be held in the same venue. With Thorpe expected to deliver world records at his first international meet in Sydney, the event was shown live on Australian television for the first time. The opening night saw him pitted against Hackett and South Africa's Ryk Neethling in the 400 m freestyle final.  The trio reached the 200 m mark in a group, on world record pace, before Thorpe broke away, recording a split time 1.86 s ahead of world-record pace at 300 m. He extended his lead to four body lengths by the 350 m mark and finished in a time of 3 min 41.83 s, cutting almost two seconds from the world record,    and covering the second half in almost the same time as the first.   Talbot reacted to the performance by dubbing Thorpe as "the greatest swimmer we've [Australia] ever had",  whilst four-time American Olympic gold medalist Rowdy Gaines , commentating for NBC , said "...he went into a balls-out sprint at 250 – and I have never seen anything like that...I have been around swimming a long time and it's the most amazing swim I've ever seen, hands down."   A formula used by the International Swimming Statisticians Association to compare world records in different events gave his performance the highest score of all current world records.  Thorpe promptly donated the A$ 25,000 prizemoney for breaking the first world record in the pool to charity.     Later the same night, Thorpe anchored the Australians to a historic victory in the 4 × 100 m freestyle final,   the first time the United States had lost the event. Thorpe set an Australian record relay split of 48.55 s. Even taking into account a 0.6–0.7 s for a flying relay start, his split time was almost 1 s faster than his individual best of 49.98 s.  It was to be the first of many occasions in which he would anchor the Australian relay teams to victory over the Americans, with splits consistently faster than his equivalent individual times.  The following night, in the semi-finals of the 200 m freestyle , Thorpe broke Hackett's world record by 0.33 s, clocking 1 min 46.34 s.   The next day in the final, he again broke the record,  lowering it to 1 min 46.0 s.    He finished his competition by leading off the 4 × 200 m freestyle team with Klim, Hackett and Bill Kirby to victory. Their time lowered their own world record by more than three seconds, completing Thorpe's fourth world record in four nights.       , Immediately after the Pan Pacific Championships, Thorpe's management announced his signing to Adidas for an undisclosed six-figure sum, stating that he would race in their new bodysuit. This presented a dilemma, as the national team was sponsored and wore outfits designed by Speedo , leading to months of protracted discussions and uncertainty.  To compound his commercial difficulties, Thorpe had an uncertain end to the sporting year when, in October, he broke a bone in his ankle whilst jogging.  However his performance throughout the year was recognised when he was again named as the World Swimmer of the Year by Swimming World , and by Swimming Australia as its Swimmer of the Year. In a wider arena, he was named Young Australian of the Year ,  ABC Sports Star of the Year, and Male Athlete of the Year at the Australian Sports Awards.    , Thorpe started 2000 looking to add a third individual event to his Olympic schedule. He explored his options by contesting the 1500 m freestyle at the New South Wales Championships in January, which he won.  Thorpe embarked on a European FINA World Cup tour in order to hone his racecraft, but this was overshadowed by comments made by German head coach Manfred Thiesmann accusing him of using steroids .    Thorpe's difficulties heightened at the subsequent German leg of the tour in Berlin, when a standoff over a drug-test arose when officials wanted to take an unsealed sample due to lack of containers. After the standoff was resolved,    Thorpe proceeded to cut more than 1.5 s from his world short course record in the 200 m freestyle.  Given the context of the race, Thorpe rated it as his best-ever performance, ahead of his victories at Olympic and World level.    On returning from Europe, Thorpe faced further uncertainty until he was granted permission to wear his Adidas suit instead of the Australian uniforms provided by Speedo.  , With the past uncertainties resolved, Thorpe proceeded to the Olympic selection trials at Sydney Olympic Park in May 2000. He again broke his 400 m world record on the first night of racing,  lowering it to 3 min 41.33 s to earn his first Olympic selection.    The following day, he lowered his 200 m world record to 1 min 45.69 s in the semi-finals,    before lowering it again to 1 min 45.51 s in the final.     His attempt to secure a third individual berth failed after he finished fourth in the final of the 100 m and withdrew from the 1500 m.    , Thorpe's success led to allegations of drug doping in 2000, which arose again in 2007. Specifically he was accused of using banned performance-enhancing steroids . Prior to the 2000 Olympics, the head coach and captain of Germany's swimming team accused Thorpe of cheating, that his physical attributes were symptomatic of steroid use and that his ability to exceed prior records believed to be drug-fuelled made his feats worthy of suspicion.   In 2007, the French sports newspaper L'Équipe claimed that Thorpe "showed 'abnormal levels' of two banned substances in a doping test".   Thorpe denied the charges and the Australian Sports Anti-Doping Authority (ASADA) confirmed that they had investigated Thorpe in the past, for abnormal levels of testosterone and luteinising hormone (LH), but had dismissed the result.   FINA dropped its investigation and closed the case.  Thorpe has never been found to have been doping, and has steadfastly denied the allegations while also being prominent in the campaign against drug use. He has called for the introduction of blood testing, promised to surrender a frozen sample for retrospective testing and repeatedly criticised FINA for drug-testing procedures that he regards as inadequate.    , Entering the Olympics, the Australian public expected Thorpe to deliver multiple world records and gold medals as a formality; Sydney's Daily Telegraph posted a front-page spread headlined Invincible .   Thorpe cruised through the heats of the 400 m on the first morning of competition, posting a new Olympic record and shortening bookmakers' odds to 50–1.    By the time the final was held that night, the pressure had intensified—the host nation had yet to win its first gold medal. Thorpe led throughout, and although Italy's Massimiliano Rosolino was within a body length at the 300 m mark, Thorpe's finishing kick extended the final margin to three body lengths.  This set a new world record of 3 min 40.59 s.   Secret tests carried out by the Italian National Olympic Committee prior to the Olympics later showed that Rosolino had abnormal levels of human growth hormone.   Rosolino aside, Thorpe had left bronze medallist Klete Keller fifteen metres in arrears.  , Thorpe lined up later in the night alongside Klim, Chris Fydler and Ashley Callus to anchor the 4 × 100 m freestyle relay , an event which the Americans had never lost at Olympic level. The third leg ended with Australia only an arm's length ahead of the United States.  Thorpe timed his dive much better than Gary Hall, Jr. , and surfaced a body length ahead. Hall's sprinting ability allowed him to open a lead by the final turn,   but Thorpe's finishing kick overhauled him in the final metres, sparking wild celebrations amongst the partisan crowd.    It evoked an uncharacteristic celebration from Thorpe, who immediately jumped out of the pool, screaming and hugging his ecstatic teammates. He even went as far as playing air guitar to mock Hall's pre-race claim that the Americans would "smash" the Australians "like guitars".    , When Thorpe broke the 200 m freestyle Olympic record in the heats the following morning,  his main rival Pieter van den Hoogenband of the Netherlands (with World #2 ranked and teammate Michael Kim bypassing the 200 metres) conceded defeat.   However, van den Hoogenband showed his hand in the semi-finals by cutting more than a second off his personal best, to set a new world record of 1 min 45.35 s. Thorpe qualified second with a personal best of his own, 0.02 s slower,   and was under immense pressure to win the final the following day after his double gold on the first night.   Van den Hoogenband started quickly and Thorpe chased him, reaching the 100 m mark just 0.04 s behind. Both swimmers turned at 150 m in identical times. As a result of starting harder than usual, Thorpe faded as van den Hoogenband drew away to claim gold and equal his world record, stunning the home crowd. Thorpe touched in 1 min 45.83 s, the first time that he had swum slower in the final than in the qualifying rounds.    Thorpe though would never again lose to Van Den Hoogenband in a long course 200 metres race again. Thorpe returned to victory when he led off the 4 × 200 m freestyle relay the following night, setting up a 10 m lead over American Scott Goldblatt in the first leg. Although Thorpe was unable to reclaim the individual world record,  he, Klim, Kirby and Todd Pearson lowered their world record to 7 min 07.05 s,  over five seconds ahead of the Americans—the largest winning margin in an Olympic relay for half a century.   Thorpe rounded off his Olympics by swimming in the heats of the 4 × 100 m medley relay , and collected a silver medal when the finals quartet finished behind the Americans.    Thorpe's performances as Australia's leading medalist for the Games were recognised when the Australian Olympic Committee granted him the honour of carrying the flag at the closing ceremony .    With three gold and two silver medals, Thorpe was the most successful athlete at the 2000 Olympic Games. At year's end, he was again named by Swimming Australia as the Swimmer of the Year, but van den Hoogenband usurped him as the leading male swimmer chosen by Swimming World Magazine .  , With the 2001 Australian Championships held in Hobart in March, Thorpe added the 800 m freestyle to his repertoire, after FINA had added the event for the 2001 World Aquatics Championships .  Thorpe began his campaign by successfully defending his 400 m title with a time just 0.17 s outside his world record.    The following night in the 800 m event, he drew away from Hackett in the last 100 m to break Kieren Perkins ' 1994 world record by over four seconds.     He earned his third title by cutting 0.66 s from van den Hoogenband's 200 m world record to set a new mark of 1 min 44.69 s.    This performance made him the third male after John Konrads and Tim Shaw to hold world records over three distances simultaneously.  His subsequent victory in the 100 m freestyle in a new personal best of 49.05 s made him the first since Konrads in 1959 to hold all Australian freestyle titles from 100 m to 800 m.   This indicated that he could swim faster at the subsequent World Championships in Fukuoka , where he was looking to regain the ascendancy from van den Hoogenband.     , Thorpe arrived in Fukuoka having been chosen by broadcaster TV Asahi as the marketing drawcard of the event.  With the 4 × 100 m freestyle relay being held after the 400 m freestyle on the first night, Thorpe appeared to be conserving energy when he reached the 200 m mark two seconds outside his world record. Although he was 0.93 s behind at the final turn, a final 50 m burst in 24.36 s saw him cut a further 0.42 s from his world record.   The relay saw him dive in fractionally ahead of American Jason Lezak after Klim, Callus and Pearson had completed the first three legs. Thorpe fell behind in the early half of the leg before kicking away in the closing stages, to seal gold with his fastest-ever relay split of 47.87 s.   In the 800 m final , he shadowed Hackett for the first 750 m, staying within a body length. He then broke clear to win by a body length, lowering his world record by over two seconds.    The 200 m freestyle rematch with van den Hoogenband provided Thorpe with a chance to rectify his strategy from the Olympics; this time he allowed the Dutchman to lead through the first 100 m. Thorpe pulled even at the 150 m mark and then broke away towards the finishing wall two body lengths clear. He lowered his world record to 1 min 44.06 s in the process, prompting van den Hoogenband to raise his arm aloft.    Thorpe's winning streak was interrupted in the 100 m freestyle when his personal best of 48.81 s placed him fourth,  but he returned to form in the 4 × 200 m freestyle relay . Anchoring the team of Klim, Hackett and Kirby, the Australians lowered their world record time by more than two seconds, leaving the Italians more than six seconds in arrears.   Having overtaken Klim as Australia's leading 100 m freestyle swimmer, Thorpe was entrusted with anchoring the 4 × 100 m medley relay team on 28 July. After Matt Welsh , Regan Harrison and Geoff Huegill had finished their legs, Thorpe's change left him half a body length behind the new 100 m world champion Anthony Ervin of the United States. The Americans were expected to win, and with his typically slow start, Thorpe turned a body length behind with 50 m remaining. With an American victory seeming inevitable, Thorpe managed to accelerate and deprive Ervin of the lead in the last 5 m.    This made Thorpe the only swimmer to have won six gold medals at a World Championships,   and the first since Shaw in 1974 to win the 200–400–800 treble.  His performances formed the basis for Australia's gold medal win over the United States 13–9. It was also the first time since the 1956 Summer Olympics that Australia had topped the medal tally at a global meet.  Thorpe's achievements led to predictions that he could match Mark Spitz 's seven gold medals at the 1972 Summer Olympics , which he played down.  , Thorpe began competition in 2002 at the Australian Championships in Brisbane in March, which were used to select the team for the 2002 Commonwealth Games in Manchester and the 2002 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships . After his record six gold medals in Fukuoka, the meet was surrounded by further expectations of world records and speculation that he would match Spitz 's seven gold medals.  His winning time in the 400 m was the second fastest in history, but such was the expectation on him that his failure to break a world record was the talking point.  He claimed the 100 m and 200 m events in times outside his best, making it the first time that he had failed to break a world record at a major meet since 1999.  He also experimented by adding the 100 m backstroke to his repertoire, placing second.  This earned him a Commonwealth spot in a seventh event, leading to further media speculation that he could match Spitz.  , By this time, Thorpe's relationship with Frost was beginning to unravel. Thorpe had always insisted that his swimming was about enjoyment and improving himself in setting faster times, rather than victory or defeat. This contrasted with Frost, who had a more aggressive and combative mindset, often making bold public statements.  Thorpe ignored Frost's advice and bulked up his upper body by a further 5 kg to 105 kg, making him the heaviest elite swimmer in history.  His reasoning that the strength gains would outweigh any loss in flexibility raised concerns over his physiological strategy.  On the first night in Manchester, Thorpe again lowered his 400 m mark by 0.09 s to 3 min 40.08 s,    before anchoring the 4 × 100 m freestyle relay team to another gold.    Prior to the 200 m final, Thorpe was seen arguing with Frost in the warm-up area. Thorpe won, but was unusually angry at having failed to lower his previous best, publicly stating that he "wasn't with it" and that he had "one of the worst warm-ups ever".    Thorpe did manage to lower his personal best in the 100 m freestyle to 48.73 s en route to his fourth gold, and anchored the 4 × 200 m freestyle and 4 × 100 m medley relays to comfortable victories.    When he collected a silver in his first international race in the 100 m backstroke with another personal best behind world champion Matt Welsh ,  he was forced to rebuff media comparisons to Spitz. He emphasised personal performance, stating "I think it's a limiting attitude to be competing against other people when you can be challenging yourself".  Despite Thorpe's assertion that he could not match Spitz, Frost predicted that Thorpe could win nine golds at one Olympics.  In spite of the media disappointment, Thorpe's six gold medals equalled the record set by Susie O'Neill , completing all in Games or World record time.       As a result, he was awarded the honour of carrying the flag at the closing ceremony.   , The Pan Pacific Championships followed in Yokohama less than a month later, with media speculation about Thorpe and Frost overshadowing the racing.  Thorpe began his campaign with a victory over Hackett in the 400 m freestyle in a time five seconds outside his world record. Afterwards, he revealed that both he and Hackett had deliberately conserved energy for the 4 × 100 m freestyle relay later in the night.  Australia subsequently won the relay, with Thorpe again overtaking Jason Lezak in the last 50 m.   He subsequently won the 200 m freestyle , and anchored the 4 × 200 m freestyle relay to victory to take his tally to four golds.   After qualifying second in the 100 m freestyle , Thorpe came from fourth at the 50 m mark win his fifth gold in a time of 48.84 s.    Thorpe's run ended in the 4 × 100 m medley relay final, when despite setting the second fastest ever relay split of 47.20 s, Australia were defeated.   , After the 2002 Pan Pacific Championships, Thorpe announced that he was splitting with Frost to train with one of his assistants, Tracey Menzies , who had no prior international experience. Admitting that tension existed between him and Frost, Thorpe asserted that the split was amicable. He cited waning motivation for the split, stating "I decided I either had to make the change or it was to walk away from the sport".  The retired Talbot expressed concerns that Thorpe was making a decision whilst he was physically and emotionally drained, while other coaches felt that the new relationship would end up with Thorpe, rather than Menzies, making the decisions.    Despite a turbulent year, he was again named by Swimming World as its World Swimmer of the Year.  , Along with the switch of coaches, Thorpe indicated that he would put more focus on improving his sprinting ability. He thus dropped the 800 m freestyle despite being the reigning world champion and record holder.  During this period, his times in the 400 m and 200 m freestyle deteriorated, and both he and Menzies were criticised. The criticism continued to mount during their partnership, particularly during the build-up to the 2004 Olympics. Following his victory in the 200 and 400 events in Athens, Thorpe said that his results justified his decision, despite posting substantially faster times as a young swimmer under Frost.  , The first major test of Thorpe's partnership with Menzies came at the Australian Championships held in Sydney in March. Thorpe did not threaten any of his world records, completing the 400 m and 200 m freestyle more than two and one seconds respectively off his best. Despite defeating Hackett in both races to retain his titles,  he later admitted that he was "pretty disappointed" with his performances.  When he tied with Ashley Callus in a time of 49.05 s,  he was criticised by The Sydney Morning Herald which stated "The measure of Thorpe's sprinting ability is that he could only match the efforts of a virus-riddled Callus".  Thorpe found some relief by setting a new Commonwealth record of 2 min 00.11 s in his first long course 200 m individual medley outing, the fifth fastest time in the past year.  Thorpe attracted further criticism when he withdrew from the inaugural Duel in the Pool with a medical complaint, despite travelling overseas for commercial and charity work.   , Thorpe arrived for the 2003 World Championships in Barcelona for his first major international competition since Menzies' appointment under heavy media scrutiny following his non-improvement at the Australian Championships. On the first night of competition Thorpe defeated Hackett in the 400 m freestyle in a time 2.5 s outside his world record,  making him the first to win three world titles in the same event.  After his relatively slow 400 m, he was again under pressure in the 200 m freestyle after van den Hoogenband led at the 100 m mark ahead of world record pace. Thorpe managed to respond and retain his world title,  and gained some relief after his sprint training yielded his first medal in the 100 m freestyle at a global competition; he finished third in 48.77 s.  In all three freestyle events however, he had swum slower than his times under Frost. He ended his individual campaign on a promising note with his experiment with the 200 m individual medley , setting a new personal best of 1 min 59.66 s to claim silver.  Thorpe again anchored the 4 × 200 m freestyle team to retain the world title along with Hackett, Nicholas Sprenger and Craig Stevens , with a reduced margin over the Americans, who finished less than two seconds in arrears.   Michael Klim 's injuries left the relay teams weakened, with Thorpe anchoring the 4 × 100 m freestyle team to fourth,   At the end of a difficult year in the water, his standing had fallen in the eyes of Swimming World , who rated him fourth in the world. He was again named as Australian Swimmer of the Year, jointly with Hackett.  , After his feats at the 2003 World Championships, Speedo had generated significant media publicity by offering Michael Phelps US$1 million if he could match Spitz's seven golds. Thorpe was adamant that this was impossible, and scrapped his seventh event, the 200 m individual medley from his Olympic program.  In late March 2004 at the Australian Championships in Sydney, Thorpe overbalanced whilst on the blocks in the heats of the 400 m freestyle and fell into the water, resulting in his disqualification and ending the defence of his Olympic 400 m title.  This resulted in a large debate among the swimming and public community as to whether Thorpe should be given an exception to Australia's policy of selecting the first and second place getters, with Prime Minister of Australia John Howard describing the situation as a "tragedy".  Despite the intense media spotlight, Thorpe managed to win the 100 m and 200 m freestyle events to ensure his selection for Athens. Craig Stevens , who had claimed the second qualifying position in the 400 m event, subsequently faced immense public pressure to relinquish his position to Thorpe, and later did so in a television interview for which he was paid.  This generated ethical debate as to whether Stevens' decision had been bought, and criticism against Thorpe.   , The pressure in the lead-up was further compounded by the media attention surrounding Phelps, who had decided that the 200 m freestyle would be one of the events in his quest for eight gold medals. This prompted many media outlets to label the race between Thorpe, van den Hoogenband, Phelps and Hackett as The Race of the Century . With the press spotlight growing, Thorpe tried to avoid media attention, resulting in a few terse media events.  Thorpe's increasing focus on the 100 m event, coupled with the media pressure, resulted in speculation that he was vulnerable to Hackett in the 400 m event . Thorpe made a slow start in the final, reaching the 100 m mark one second outside world record pace. In a topsy-turvy performance at irregular pace, there were multiple changes of lead before Thorpe established a body-length lead by 350 m. He was closed down by Hackett, holding on by only 0.26 s in a time three seconds outside his own world record. Thorpe appeared to shed tears in an uncharacteristic sign of emotion, admitting that the controversy surrounding the event had taken a toll on him, but denying that any liquid had left his eyes.   , With Klim recently returning from a two-year injury layoff, and Callus ill, Thorpe could only anchor Australia to sixth in the 4 × 100 m freestyle relay .  The 200 m began with van den Hoogenband again attacking immediately, reaching the 100 m mark more than a second under the world record split, with Thorpe half a body length behind. Thorpe gradually reduced the lead before passing van den Hoogenband in the last 50 m to win The Race of the Century by half a body length, in a new Olympic record of 1 min 44.71 s.  Having achieved what had eluded him four years earlier, Thorpe reacted emotionally, immediately tearing off his cap, punching the air and screaming.  The next day saw six years of Australian victory in the 4 × 200 m freestyle relay ended when Hackett, Klim and Sprenger had put Thorpe into the final leg 1.48 s behind Keller. Thorpe gradually reduced the margin but was unable to pass Keller in the last lap, the United States touching 0.13 s earlier.   Thorpe found himself on the other side of a close result when he qualified last for the 100 m freestyle by 0.01 s. He capitalised in the final by coming from sixth at the 50 m mark to win bronze medal in a personal best of 48.56 s,   making him the only person to medal in the 100–200–400 combination in Olympic history.  After the Athens Olympics, Thorpe took a break from competitive swimming, skipping the 2005 World Aquatics Championships . , Thorpe returned to competition at the New South Wales Championships in December 2005. He raced in the 200 m and stated his intention to retire after the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing.  Thorpe announced that due to a desire to concentrate on the 100 m freestyle, he had dropped his pet event, the 400 m. He was unmoved by national coach Alan Thompson , who implored him to continue swimming the event.  In February, Thorpe qualified for the 2006 Commonwealth Games by winning the 100 m and 200 m freestyle in times of 49.24 s and 1 min 46.42 s respectively. He expressed disappointment with his performances; he speculated that he may have misjudged his new training schedule and anticipated further improvement.   , Soon after, Thorpe announced his withdrawal from the Commonwealth Games due to a bout of bronchitis , which had stopped him from training.   Thorpe's illness was later diagnosed as a strain of glandular fever ,  and after a further delay caused by a broken hand, he moved to the United States in July to work with Dave Salo . Further disruption followed when the Australian switched coaches, citing excessive and ongoing media attention.  Thorpe's stay was constantly surrounded by rumours that he was suffering from ill discipline; this fuelled speculation that his international career was on the decline.   , Upon his return to Australia, Thorpe withdrew from the selection trials for the 2007 World Championships and announced his retirement on 21 November 2006.  Thorpe said that he had been contemplating retirement for some time, but was afraid of the future because swimming had given him a "safety blanket".  Thorpe stated that he retired despite reaching higher levels of fitness, noting "As I got fit, physically fit, my mind also got fit".  He said a clear mind allowed him to reach his decision. He was close to tears when thanking the Australian public, but declared that his retirement was a "joyous" occasion of celebration.  , On 1 February 2011, Ian Thorpe announced that he would try to qualify for the 2012 Olympics in London. Thorpe's major focus was the 100 m and 200 m freestyle at 2012's trials, stating he could offer the most value to the Australian team in the relays. He would not swim the 400 m, claiming he would not have enough time to build up endurance for that event.  This led many to see a renewed rivalry with Michael Phelps. , Thorpe swam the 100 m butterfly and 100 m medley in Singapore (4–5 November) and Beijing (8–9 November) before also taking on the 100 m freestyle in the Tokyo (12–13 November) round of the 2011 FINA Swimming World Cup .  , Thorpe's comeback attempt in the 200 m freestyle came to an abrupt end on day 2 of Australia's Olympic Trials in Adelaide, on 16 March 2012. No longer allowed to wear the full-body racing suit (covering from neck to ankles and wrists) with which he set all of his world records – but are now banned by FINA rule changes  – he competed wearing just the "jammer" (hip to thigh) racing shorts. He swam very well in the morning heats, cruising to 1:49.18, a time which placed him equal fifth fastest. However, in the semi-finals that evening he faded over the last 100 meters, finishing in 12th place at 1:49.91. Speaking to reporters immediately afterwards, Thorpe said, "The last 100 was a struggle, I'm not sure why. This was slower than what I swam this morning, probably the inexperience of racing in the last 18 months held me up. The fairytale has turned into a nightmare."  In the 100 m freestyle on day 3 (17 March), Thorpe won his heat (the 9th of 12) but failed to break 50 seconds and did not advance to the semi-finals with the top 16 sprinters. Thus, his bid to qualify for the London Olympics officially ended. , Thorpe spoke to reporters after his 100 m race, saying: "When I started this I wanted to get back into the pool. I wanted to start racing again, I wanted to be competitive again and I wanted to go to the Olympics. I still want to do all of those things. I've missed out on what was a huge goal for me to accomplish in this short period of time, but still the desire I had previous to this, it's still there." Essentially saying that his (relatively) slow times in the 100 and 200 meters were the result of too short a period to train and prepare, Thorpe announced he will continue training, setting as his (new) goal qualifying for the World Championships in 2013. , During the 2012 Olympic Games, Thorpe worked as a pundit for BBC Television . , Thorpe's success has been attributed to his work ethic, mental strength, powerful kick, ability to accelerate and a physiology suited to swimming. This led former Australian head coach Don Talbot to label him as "the greatest swimmer the world has seen".  Although Swimming World labelled Thorpe's technique as "extraordinary" and "superior",  Talbot disagreed, stating his belief that Thorpe relied on his kick too heavily at the expense of his arms. He also cited Thorpe's ability to manage his workload and his day-to-day recovery between races during a meet as a deficiency.  Thorpe was known for using his trademark six-beat kick to power away from his rivals in the closing stages of races, the effectiveness of which was attributed to his unusually large size 17 feet.   , Following his retirement, head coach of the US men's swimming team Bob Bowman —who also mentors Michael Phelps —called Thorpe "the greatest middle-distance swimmer of all time and...the greatest relay swimmer I have seen".  Bowman further cited Thorpe's ability to raise the profile and popularity of swimming, noting that Phelps' public image was modelled on that of the Australian. Australian Olympic Committee President John Coates stated that "In 50 years from now Australians will still marvel at the feats of Ian Thorpe".  Dawn Fraser , the first of only two swimmers to win the same Olympic event three times, said that Thorpe was the "greatest [freestyle] swimmer in the world",   and lamented that he would not be attempting a hat-trick of 400 m titles.   , Aside from his swimming achievements, Thorpe has received numerous honours and accolades during his life. , In a July 2014 televised interview with British talk show host Michael Parkinson Thorpe came out as gay, after years of denying his homosexuality publicly.      He stated "I'm comfortable saying I'm a gay man. And I don't want people to feel the same way I did. You can grow up, you can be comfortable and you can be gay." He added "I am telling the world that I am gay … and I hope this makes it easier for others now, and even if you've held it in for years, it feels easier to get it out."   , Thorpe is known for his interests in fashion, and serves as an ambassador for Armani ,   and has his own line of designer jewellery and underwear.  During his career, Thorpe was one of the most prominent and popular sportspeople in Australia. Despite competing in a sport in which the vast majority of international athletes' earnings are below the poverty line,  marketing surveys consistently ranked Thorpe as the most sought-after Australian athlete for sponsorship deals, surpassing footballers who compete on a weekly basis in much larger stadia.  Aside from his swimsuit sponsor Adidas , Thorpe was sponsored by Australian corporate giants such as Qantas , Telstra , and the Seven Network .   , Thorpe's interests in fashion and culture led him to make frequent visits to New York City —which he describes as a second home—often for engagements with Armani and particularly because of the cities status as a global fashion capital.    He was present at the World Trade Center on the morning of 11 September 2001, having stopped there on his jog, before returning to his hotel after forgetting his camera.   It was during this trip that he appeared on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno , which was notable because of the relative lack of interest in competitive swimming in America.   Thorpe later became a spokesperson for the unsuccessful New York bid for the 2012 Summer Olympics , even promising to continue his career until the games if New York won the hosting rights.  Thorpe's interests have also seen him involved in television. In 2002, he played the lead role in the reality television show Undercover Angels , which imitated the Charlie's Angels series. In the program, Thorpe directed three young women who performed good deeds for people in need.  Although it averaged more than a million viewers per episode, it was widely panned by critics.    Thorpe has also appeared as an extra in the American sitcom Friends .    , Thorpe is widely popular in Asia, particularly Japan. In 2000, TV Asahi identified him as the swimmer likely to be the most successful at the 2001 World Championships in Fukuoka, so they selected him as the event's marketing figurehead. In the lead-up, Thorpe visited Japan to promote Asahi in a series of television events,   and upon returning for the competition, he was mobbed at the airport by youthful crowds 25 m deep; hundreds camped outside the Australian team's hotel.   He was also praised by older sections of Japanese society as a role model for youth, due to what they interpreted as his humility and work ethic.   It was estimated that more than 80% of the Japanese public watched his races on television.  In 2002, in the wake of a tourism slump after 11 September terrorist attacks, Thorpe agreed to be an ambassador for the Australian Tourism Commission in Japan. The high-profile campaign included a meeting with the Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi . The marketing drive resulted in an upturn in Japanese tourism to Australia, which was credited to Thorpe.     In 2005, Yakult released a 'Thorpedo' energy drink—which featured a picture of the swimmer on the bottle—in Japan.  This was part of an equity deal with the So Natural food group, in which Thorpe was given a 5% stake in the company—at the time worth A$1.1 m—in return for the use of his name and image on their products. The 15-year deal covers East and Southeast Asia and Thorpe's share in the venture could increase to 50% depending on its success.   , More recently, Thorpe has also emerged as a philanthropist, starting the Ian Thorpe's Fountain for Youth in 2000.   The organisation raises funds for research into childhood illnesses and sponsors a school in Beijing for orphaned children with disabilities.   In addition, it works with The Fred Hollows Foundation to improve health standards and living conditions in Australian aboriginal communities.    , In 2014, it was confirmed that Thorpe had been admitted to a rehabilitation clinic after neighbours found him dazed near his parents' Panania home. Thorpe was taken to Bankstown Hospital by police before being admitted to a rehabilitation clinic. In his 2012 autobiography This is Me , Thorpe stated he had considered suicide and had drunk 'huge quantities' of alcohol to deal with 'crippling depression'.   Aaron Wells Peirsol (born July 23, 1983) is an American former competition swimmer and backstroke specialist who is a former world champion and world record-holder. He is a three-time Olympian and seven-time Olympic medalist (five gold, two silver). As a member of the U.S. national team, he holds the world record in the men's 4×100-meter medley relay (long course). Individually, he currently holds the world record in the 100-meter and 200-meter backstroke events (long course). In February 2011, Peirsol announced his retirement, saying, "I ended up doing everything I set out to do." , Peirsol's successes have earned him the American Swimmer of the Year Award once. He has won a total of thirty-six medals in major international competition, twenty-nine gold, six silver, and one bronze spanning the Olympics, the World , Pan American , and the Pan Pacific Championships . , In his Olympic debut at the 2000 Summer Olympics , at the age of 17, Peirsol won a silver medal in the 200-meter backstroke. Four years later, at the 2004 Summer Olympics , Peirsol won gold in the 100-meter and 200-meter backstroke (sweeping the backstroke events) and the 4×100-meter medley relay. In his third Olympics ( 2008 Summer Olympics ), Peirsol won gold in the 100-meter backstroke and the 4×100-meter medley relay. He came short of his success he had in Athens by winning silver in the 200-meter backstroke, finishing behind Ryan Lochte . , , , Peirsol was born in Irvine, California , in 1983, the son of Scott and Wella Peirsol. His father is a captain and his mother is a retired dental hygienist . He has one younger sister, Hayley , who is also a swimmer. Peirsol and his sister are the only sibling duo to medal at the same FINA World Championships (in 2003). He is a 2002 graduate of Newport Harbor High School in Newport Beach, California . Peirsol attended the University of Texas at Austin and graduated in 2006, majoring in government. He was the 2003 NCAA Swimmer of the Year.  After finishing his second year of collegiate eligibility, Peirsol signed with Nike, Inc. , thus turning professional.  Peirsol trained under the guidance of Eddie Reese and Kris Kubik .  , Peirsol is also involved in a number of charities. He is an ambassador for the Global Water Foundation and the Surfrider Foundation .  He is also a spokesman for Oceana , which is the largest international ocean conservation and advocacy organization.  , Peirsol qualified for his first Olympics at the age of seventeen after finishing second to Lenny Krayzelburg in the 200-meter backstroke at the 2000 U.S. Olympic Team Trials.  Peirsol also competed in the 100-meter backstroke, but did not qualify for the event, finishing 4th.  At the 2000 Summer Olympics , Peirsol finished second to Krayzelburg in the 200-meter backstroke .  Afterwards Peirsol said, "I think I'm getting to a point where I'm becoming more of a threat to (Lenny) and I think he knows that."  , At the 2001 National Championships, with Krayzelburg not competing, Peirsol qualified for the 2001 World Aquatics Championships in Fukuoka, Japan, in the 100-meter backstroke, the 200-meter backstroke, and the 4×100-meter medley relay.  Peirsol's time in the 200-meter backstroke was the second-fastest ever, with only Krayzelburg's world record faster.  At the 2001 World Aquatics Championships, Peirsol won gold in the 200-meter backstroke with a time of 1:57.13, a championship record.   , Peirsol started off 2002 with the first world record of his career in the 200-meter backstroke, bettering Krayzelburg's mark set in 1999.  In his first major competition of 2002, Peirsol won five medals (three gold, one silver, one bronze) at the 2002 FINA World Swimming Championships (25 m) in Moscow. In Moscow, he was a part of the American team that broke the world record in the 4×100-meter medley relay and he broke the 200-meter backstroke world record.      At the 2002 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships in Yokohama, Japan, Peirsol won gold in the 100 and 200-meter backstroke and the 4×100-meter medley relay . Combined with Brendan Hansen , Michael Phelps , and Jason Lezak , Peirsol set the world record in the 4×100-meter medley relay to break the previous record set in 2000.  , At the 2003 World Aquatics Championships in Barcelona, Spain, Peirsol won gold in the 100 and 200-meter backstroke and the 4×100-meter medley relay . He also won a silver medal in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay . In his first event, the 100-meter backstroke, Peirsol won gold in a time of 53.61, a championship record . His time was just 0.01 s off Lenny Krayzelburg's world record.  Peirsol participated in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay with Michael Phelps , Nate Dusing , and Klete Keller to win silver behind Australia .  Peirsol then competed in the 200-meter backstroke and won gold in a time of 1:55.92, almost two seconds ahead of second-place finisher Gordan Kožulj of Croatia .   Peirsol also competed in the 50-meter backstroke and the 4×100-meter medley relay. In the 50-meter backstroke, Peirsol finished out of medal contention with a 8th place finish.  In his last event, Peirsol competed in the 4×100-meter medley relay with Brendan Hansen , Ian Crocker , and Jason Lezak . The final time of 3:31.54 was a new world record, bettering the old mark from 2002.  , At the 2004 U.S. Olympic Team Trials, Peirsol won individual titles in the 100 and 200-meter backstroke. Four years after finishing in 4th place at the 2000 U.S. Olympic Team Trials, Peirsol won the 100-meter backstroke title, beating Lenny Krayzelburg .  Peirsol was the only individual in the field to break 54 seconds and was just off Krayzelburg's world record.  In the 200-meter backstroke, Peirsol won in a world record time of 1:54.74, bettering his previous record of 1:55.15 set in 2002.  He beat his closest competitor, Michael Phelps , by more than a second.  , At the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece, Peirsol won gold in the 100 and 200-meter backstroke , sweeping the backstroke events, and the 4×100-meter medley relay . In his first event, the 100-meter backstroke, Peirsol won gold in a time of 54.06, 0.29 s ahead of second-place finisher Markus Rogan of Austria .   In his second event, the 200-meter backstroke, Peirsol won gold in an Olympic record time of 1:54.95 and completed a clean sweep of the backstroke events.  Rogan again finished second to Peirsol, 2.40 s back. An initial disqualification alleged that Peirsol had made an illegal turn during the 200-meter backstroke race. Having been improperly entered, the disqualification was eventually overturned.  In his last event, the 4×100-meter medley relay, Peirsol combined with Brendan Hansen , Ian Crocker , and Jason Lezak to win gold in a world record time of 3:30.68, 2.94 s ahead of second-place finisher Germany .  While leading off the relay, Peirsol broke the world record in the 100-meter backstroke with a time of 53.45, bettering Krayzelburg's time of 53.60 set in 1999.  , Peirsol caused minor controversy when he accused Kosuke Kitajima of Japan of using an illegal dolphin kick in the 100-meter breaststroke final when compatriot Brendan Hansen lost by 0.17 s.  , Shortly after the 2004 Summer Olympics, Peirsol competed at the 2004 FINA World Swimming Championships (25 m) in Indianapolis where he won three gold medals. His first gold medal came in the 100-meter backstroke in a time of 50.72, a new championship record.  Three days later, Peirsol competed in the 200-meter backstroke and the 4×100-meter medley relay. In the 200-meter backstroke, Peirsol won gold in a world record time of 1:50.52, bettering his old mark of 1:50.64 (set earlier in 2004) and finished 2.02 s ahead of Matt Welsh of Australia .   Peirsol then competed in the 4×100-meter medley relay with Brendan Hansen , Ian Crocker , and Jason Lezak to win gold in a world record time of 3:25.09, 4.63 s ahead of Australia.  Peirsol also competed in the 50-meter backstroke but finished out of medal contention.  , At the 2005 World Championship Trials, the selection meet for the 2005 World Aquatics Championships , Peirsol won individual titles in the 100 and 200-meter backstroke. In the 100-meter backstroke, Peirsol won and broke his own world record with a time of 53.17, bettering his time of 53.45 set in Athens.   In the 200-meter backstroke, Peirsol easily won with a time of 1:55.13.  , At the 2005 World Aquatics Championships in Montreal, Quebec, Peirsol won gold in the 100 and 200-meter backstroke and the 4×100-meter medley relay . In his first event, the 100-meter backstroke, Peirsol won gold in a time of 53.62, just 0.01 s off his championship record set two years earlier in Barcelona.  For his second event, the 200-meter backstroke, Peirsol won in dominating fashion. His time of 1:54.66 was a new world record and 1.97 s ahead of second-place finisher Markus Rogan .  Peirsol then competed in the 4×100-meter medley relay with Brendan Hansen , Ian Crocker , and Jason Lezak to win gold in a time of 3:31.85, 3.23 s ahead of second-place finisher Russia .  Peirsol also competed in the 50-meter backstroke but finished out of medal contention.  , At the 2006 National Championships, the selection meet for the 2006 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships and the 2007 World Aquatics Championships , Peirsol won individual titles in the 100 and 200-meter backstroke.   At the 2006 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships in Victoria, British Columbia, Peirsol won gold in the 100 and 200-meter backstroke and the 4×100-meter medley relay . In his first event, the 100-meter backstroke, Peirsol won gold in a championship record time of 53.32.  Peirsol was the only individual in the field to break 54 seconds and beat his closest competitor, Ryan Lochte , by 0.70 s.  Peirsol earned his second gold in the 200-meter backstroke with a world record time of 1:54.44, bettering his previous mark of 1:54.66 set last year in Montreal.  At the time, Peirsol held nine of the fastest times posted in the event and defeated second-place finisher Michael Phelps by 2.37 s.  Peirsol then competed in the 4×100-meter medley relay with Brendan Hansen , Ian Crocker , and Jason Lezak to win gold in a time of 3:31.79, a new championship record.  , At the 2007 World Aquatics Championships in Melbourne, Australia, Peirsol won one gold and one silver medal. In his first event, the 100-meter backstroke , Peirsol won gold in a world record time of 52.98, bettering his time of 53.17 set in 2005.  Peirsol became the first man in the event to go under 53 seconds and beat Ryan Lochte by 0.52 s. At the time, Peirsol held five of the fastest times posted in the event. At one point during the first 50-meters, Peirsol was a full meter behind Ryan Lochte , and at the turn, Peirsol was in third place behind Liam Tancock and Lochte. But Peirsol had a superior finish to over-take both swimmers.  After the race, Peirsol thanked Lochte for the fast start, which he attributed to the world record.  In the 200-meter backstroke , Peirsol placed second to Lochte and lost his world record he set in 2006.  Throughout the race, Peirsol was in first and at the 150-meter mark, Peirsol was ahead of Lochte 1:24.56 to 1:25.05. But Lochte had a strong finish to over-take Peirsol for the win.  For Peirsol, it was his first international loss in the event since the 2000 Summer Olympics.  Peirsol did not have a chance to swim in the 4×100-meter medley relay final because the United States was disqualified in the heats.  , At the 2008 U.S. Olympic Team Trials, Peirsol won individual titles in the 100 and 200-meter backstroke, repeating his results from the 2004 U.S. Olympic Team Trials. In his first event, the 100-meter backstroke, Peirsol won ahead of Matt Grevers with a world record time of 52.89, lowering his previous mark of 52.98 set last year.   In his second event, the 200-meter backstroke, Peirsol won in a time of 1:54.32, equalling Ryan Lochte 's world record set last year.  Lochte finished a close second, just 0.02 s behind Peirsol.  , At the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, China, Peirsol won gold in the 100-meter backstroke and the 4×100-meter medley relay . He also won silver in the 200-meter backstroke . In his first event, the 100-meter backstroke, Peirsol was the heavy favorite for gold, with him being the world-record holder and the defending Olympic champion. For the final of the 100-meter backstroke, Peirsol was swimming in lane two, having qualified fifth in the semifinals. At the first 50-meters in the 100-meter backstroke final, Peirsol was in second place behind Liam Tancock , who took it out in 25.11. Peirsol was 0.54 s behind Tancock at the turn. However, after the turn, Peirsol overtook Tancock, who eventually placed sixth, and won the gold. Peirsol's final time of 52.54 was a new world record, bettering his previous mark of 52.89 set last month. After the race, Peirsol said, "I'm a little bit excited, a little bit relieved, absolutely elated."  In his second event, the 200-meter backstroke, Peirsol placed second to Ryan Loche 1:54.33 to 1:53.94. In winning the gold, Lochte broke the world record tie he and Peirsol shared in the 200-meter backstroke.  In his last event, the 4×100-meter medley relay, Peirsol combined with Brendan Hansen , Michael Phelps , and Jason Lezak to win gold in a world record time of 3:29.34, lowering the old mark of 3:30.68 set four years ago in Athens.  , At the 2009 National Championships, the selection meet for the 2009 World Aquatics Championships , Peirsol won individual titles in the 100- and 200-meter backstroke. In his first event, the 100-meter backstroke, Peirsol won in a time of 51.94, reclaiming the world record from Aschwin Wildeboer Faber .  In winning the 100-meter backstroke, Peirsol became the first person to swim the event in under 52 seconds and it was the sixth time he set the world record in the event.  In the 200-meter backstroke, Peirsol defeated Ryan Lochte and reclaimed the 200-meter backstroke world record he lost in Beijing.   Peirsol also competed in the 100-meter butterfly but did not qualify for the event in Rome, finishing in third place.  , At the 2009 World Aquatics Championships in Rome, Peirsol won two gold medals. In his first event, the 100-meter backstroke , Peirsol surprised many after he failed to make the final, which he attributed to a miscalculation of his own position in the semifinals. Peirsol said, "I thought I was going faster. I am very disappointed. I completely misjudged my race. I have to go on, pick myself up and focus on my next events."  But Peirsol's world record in the 100-meter backstroke would stay in place after the final.  In his second event, the 200-meter backstroke , Peirsol won the gold in a time of 1:51.92, breaking his own world record of 1:53.08 by more than a second.  Peirsol then competed in the 50-meter backstroke but did not advance past the heats.  In his last event, the 4×100-meter medley relay , Peirsol combined with Eric Shanteau , Michael Phelps , and David Walters to win gold in a world record time of 3:27.28, lowering the old mark of 3:29.34 set a year ago in Beijing.  While leading off the relay, Peirsol broke the championship record in the 100-meter backstroke with a time of 52.19, bettering the previous mark of 52.26 set by Junya Koga .  , At the 2010 National Championships , Peirsol placed second in both the 100- and 200-meter backstroke.   In the 100-meter backstroke, Peirsol placed second to David Plummer , who touched just 0.03 s ahead. For Peirsol, it was his first loss in the 100-meter backstroke at a national championships since he placed 4th at the 2000 U.S. Olympic Team Trials.   In the 200-meter backstroke, Peirsol placed second to Ryan Lochte , who finished 0.70 s ahead.  , At the 2010 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships in Irvine, California, Peirsol won gold in the 100-meter backstroke and the 4×100-meter medley relay . Peirsol's first gold came in the 100-meter backstroke. Initially, Peirsol did not qualify to swim in the medal-awarding final because only a maximum of two swimmers from one country could enter in the finals and David Plummer and Ryan Lochte owned the top two American spots.  However, Lochte withdrew from the 100-meter backstroke and as a result, Peirsol advanced to the finals. Peirsol won the gold in a time of 53.31, breaking his own championship record set in 2006.  Peirsol then competed in the 200-meter backstroke but did not qualify to swim in the medal-awarding final, with Lochte and Tyler Clary taking the top two American spots.  In his final event, the 4×100-meter medley relay, Peirsol won gold along with compatriots Mark Gangloff , Michael Phelps , and Nathan Adrian . This would be the last race of his international career. When the competition was over, Peirsol said he put his swimming equipment in a locker and walked away.   , On February 2, 2011, at the age of twenty-seven, Peirsol announced that he was officially retiring from professional swimming.  This ended months of speculation after Peirsol withdrew from his spots in both the 2010 FINA World Swimming Championships (25 m) in Dubai and the 2011 World Aquatics Championships in Shanghai. Peirsol said he contemplated retirement after the 2008 Summer Olympics . In 2010, he said he had no further goals and found it difficult to swim because he "ended up doing everything (he) set out to do." He added, "Things outside of the sport started to interest me." Peirsol said it was "poetic" that he ended his career at the same pool he trained in as a kid at the 2010 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships .  Peirsol plans to go to graduate school at the University of Texas at Austin to study political science .  ,  Thomas Michael Jager (born October 6, 1964) is an American former competition swimmer . He is five-time Olympic gold medalist in relay events, a two-time World Championship individual gold medalist for the 50-meter freestyle, and a former world record-holder in two events. Jager set the 50-meter freestyle world record on six occasions during his career. He held this record for over ten years from August 1989 to June 2000. , , , Jager attended the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), and swam for coach Ron Ballatore 's UCLA Bruins swimming and diving team in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) competition from 1983 to 1985. He won NCAA individual national championships in the 100-yard freestyle (1983, 1984), the 50-yard freestyle (1984, 1985), and the 100-yard backstroke (1985). In 1984, he was honored as the Pacific-10 Conference Swimmer of the Year. , He was also an eleven-time United States national open champion. , Jager won seven Olympic medals for the United States. He won five gold medals in relay events. He also won an individual silver medal in the 50-meter freestyle in 1988 , and an individual bronze medal in the 50-meter freestyle in 1992 .  , At the World Championships , Jager won gold medals in the 50-meter freestyle in 1986 and 1991. He also won gold medals in the 50-meter freestyle at the Pan Pacific Swimming Championships in 1989 and 1991. , Jager was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame in 2001.  , In 2004, Jager became the head coach of the University of Idaho 's Idaho Vandals women's swim team.  Jager then accepted the head coaching position for the Washington State Cougars swim team at Washington State University in 2011. , Tom is the youngest of a family of swimming siblings. While under a swimming scholarship at the University of Iowa , his eldest sister Diane was an All-American swimmer. His brother Bill qualified for Nationals while in high school and then went on to earn a full swimming scholarship at the University of Illinois . All three siblings went on to work as swimming coaches. , Tom has two sons, Wyatt (born 1996) and Cy (born 1999), both of whom swim for his swimming club, the Gold Medal Swim Club. , ,  Donald Arthur Schollander (born April 30, 1946) is an American former competition swimmer , five-time Olympic champion, and former world record-holder in four events. He won a total of five gold medals and one silver medal at the 1964 and 1968 Summer Olympics . With four gold medals, he was the most successful athlete at the 1964 Olympics.  , , , Schollander was born in Charlotte, North Carolina ,  and learned competitive swimming from his uncle, Newt Perry , who ran a swimming school in Florida.  As a boy, Schollander moved with his family to Lake Oswego, Oregon .  Although his first sporting passion was football , he was too small to compete in high school football.  Instead, he joined Lake Oswego High School 's swim team, and in 1960, helped lead the team to an Oregon state swimming championship as a freshman.   , As a teenager in 1962, Schollander moved to Santa Clara, California to train under swim coach George Haines of the Santa Clara Swim Club .  Two years later at the age of 18, he won three freestyle events at the AAU national championships.  He made the U.S. Olympic team in two individual events and two relays. Months later, he won four gold medals and set three world records at the 1964 Summer Olympics , at the time the most medals won by an American since Jesse Owens in 1936.  His success helped earn him the James E. Sullivan Award as the top amateur athlete in the United States, and the AP Athlete of the Year, defeating runner-up Johnny Unitas by a wide margin.  He was also named ABC 's Wide World of Sports Athlete of the Year. , Schollander appeared on an episode of To Tell the Truth immediately after winning his four gold medals. , Schollander attended Yale University and is a member of the Skull and Bones secret society and the Delta Kappa Epsilon (Phi chapter) fraternity, as was the future President George W. Bush .  He was the captain of Yale's swim team , winning three individual NCAA championships.  At the 1968 Summer Olympics , Schollander won another gold medal in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay , but finishing second in the 200-meter freestyle , the event that Schollander had considered to be his best.  This was the first Olympics in which 200-meter swimming events were part of the competition. , Following the 1968 Olympics, Schollander retired from competitive swimming. , Schollander was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame in 1965, at the age of 19.  In 1983, he was one of the first group of inductees into the U.S. Olympic Hall of Fame. He is also a member of Oregon Sports Hall of Fame .  , In 1971, he published his first book, Deep Water (with Duke Savage) chronicling his swimming, his teammates and coaches, and the behind-the-scenes politics of international swimming, especially the Olympic Games. He followed this book in 1974 with Inside Swimming (with Joel H. Cohen). , Schollander resides with his wife Cheryl in Lake Oswego, Oregon , where he runs Schollander Development, a real estate development company. His gold medals are on display to the public at a Bank of America branch location in downtown Lake Oswego.  Schollander has three children, Jeb, Kyle and Katie.  , ,  Johnny Weissmuller (born Peter Johann Weißmüller ;  June 2, 1904 – January 20, 1984) was an American competition swimmer and actor best known for playing Tarzan in films of the 1930s and 1940s and for having one of the best competitive swimming records of the 20th century. Weissmuller was one of the world's fastest swimmers in the 1920s, winning five Olympic gold medals for swimming and one bronze medal for water polo. He won fifty-two U.S. National Championships, set more than fifty world records, both in freestyle and backstroke,  and was purportedly undefeated in official competition for the entirety of his competitive career. After retiring from competitions, he became the sixth actor to portray Edgar Rice Burroughs 's ape man, Tarzan, a role he played in twelve motion pictures. Dozens of other actors have also played Tarzan, but Weissmuller is by far the best known. His character's distinctive Tarzan yell is still often used in films. , , , Weissmüller was an ethnic German, one of two boys born to Peter Weissmüller and his wife Elisabeth Kersch, who were both Banat Swabians , an ethnic German population in Southeast Europe. His generally accepted birthplace was in the Freidorf ( Szabadfalu ) suburb of the current city of Timișoara , Romania (German: Temeschburg, Hungarian: Temesvár) The village is in Romania . However, the ship's roster from his family's arrival at Ellis Island lists his birthplace as Párdány , Kingdom of Hungary , in what is today a village in Serbia , not far from the Romanian border.     , According to his son Johnny Jr., Johnny (senior) was named Peter by his parents; but, once he began to be successful as a swimmer, he formally used his brother's name, Johnny, because his brother John was, by birth, a U.S. citizen (and had official records that verified this fact), and Peter was not (this was done so that non-citizen Peter could represent the United States in the Olympics).  , The records of St Rochus Church in Freidorf show that Johann, son of Peter Weissmüller and Elizabeth Kersch, was baptized there on May 6, 1904. The passenger manifest of the S.S. Rotterdam , which arrived in New York on January 26, 1905, lists Peter Weissmüller, a 29-year-old laborer, his 24-year-old wife Elisabeth, and seven-month-old Johann. The family is listed as Germans, last residence (Timișoara). They intended to join their brother-in-law Johann Ott of Windber, Pennsylvania . On November 5, 1905, Johann Peter Weissmüller was baptized at St John Cantius Catholic Church in Windber.  In the 1910 census, Peter and Elizabeth Weisenmüller as well as John and Eva Ott were living at 1521 Cleveland Ave in the 22nd Ward of Chicago, with sons John, age six, born in Temesvár and Peter Jr., age five, erroneously entered as born in Illinois . Peter Weissmüller and John Ott were both brewers, Ott emigrating in 1902, Weissmüller in 1904. The ethnic group known as Banat Swabians had lived for several centuries in that region and developed a distinctive dialect and cultural traits. , When Weissmüller was a small child, the family emigrated to the United States aboard the S.S. Rotterdam as steerage passengers. They left Rotterdam on January 14, 1905, and arrived at Ellis Island in New York harbor twelve days later as Peter, Elisabeth and Johann Weissmüller. The passenger list records them as ethnic Germans and citizens of Austria-Hungary . After a brief stay in Chicago visiting relatives, they moved to the coal mining town of Windber, Pennsylvania . (For most of Weissmüller's career, show business biographies incorrectly listed him as having been born in Pennsylvania. Some sources [ who? ] state that Weissmüller lied about his birthplace to ensure his place on the US Olympic swimming team.) Peter Weissmuller worked as a miner, and his youngest son, Peter Weissmüller, Jr., was born in Windber on 3 September 1905. Peter Jr. is listed on one census as having been born in Illinois. , At age nine, Weissmüller contracted polio . At the suggestion of his doctor, he took up swimming to help battle the disease. After the family moved from Western Pennsylvania to Chicago , Weissmüller continued swimming and eventually earned a spot on the YMCA swim team.   According to military draft registration records for World War I, Peter and Elizabeth were apparently still together as late as 1917. On his paperwork, Peter was listed as a brewer, working for the Elston and Fullerton Brewery. He and his family were living at 226 West North Avenue in Chicago . In his book, Tarzan, My Father , Johnny Weissmuller Jr. stated that although rumors of Peter Weissmüller living to "a ripe old age, remarrying along the way and spawning a large brood of little Weissmüllers" were reported, no one in the family was aware of his ultimate fate.  Peter signed his consent for 19-year old John "Weissmuller"'s passport application in 1924, preceding Johnny's Olympic competition in France. In the 1930 federal census, Elizabeth Weissmüller, age 49, has listed with her, sons John P. and Peter J., and Peter's wife Dorothy. Elizabeth is listed as a widow. , As a teen, Weissmuller attended Lane Technical College Prep High School before dropping out to work various jobs including a stint as a lifeguard at a Lake Michigan beach. While working as an elevator operator and bellboy at the Illinois Athletic Club, Weissmuller caught the eye of swim coach William Bachrach . Bachrach trained Weissmuller and in August 1921, Weissmuller won the national championships in the 50-yard and 220-yard distances. Though he was foreign-born, Weissmuller gave his birthplace as Tanneryville, Pennsylvania, and his birth date as that of his younger brother, Peter Weissmuller. This was to ensure his eligibility to compete as part of the United States Olympic team, and was a critical issue in being issued an United States passport .  (This comment seems to be contradicted by data on his actual passport application; on his 1924 passport application, he listed his date of birth as June 2, 1904, and his place of birth as Windbar, Pennsylvania. His father, Peter, signed an affidavit to this effect, giving his 19-year-old son permission to travel abroad to participate in the Paris Olympics and for other competitions in England and Belgium. His passport was issued in May, 1924.) , On July 9, 1922, Weissmuller broke Duke Kahanamoku 's world record in the 100-meter freestyle, swimming it in 58.6 seconds.  He won the title for that distance at the 1924 Summer Olympics , beating Kahanamoku for the gold.  He also won the 400-meter freestyle and was a member of the winning U.S. team in the 4×200-meter relay. As a member of the U.S. water polo team, he also won a bronze medal. Four years later, at the 1928 Summer Olympics in Amsterdam , he won another two gold medals.   It was during this period that Weissmuller became an enthusiast for John Harvey Kellogg 's holistic lifestyle views on nutrition, enemas and exercise. He came to Kellogg's Battle Creek, Michigan sanatorium to dedicate its new 120-foot swimming pool, and would go on to break one of his own previous swimming records after adopting the vegetarian diet prescribed by Kellogg.  , In 1927, Weissmuller set a new world record of 51.0 seconds in the 100-yard freestyle, which stood for 17 years. He improved it to 48.5 s at Billy Rose World's Fair Aquacade in 1940, aged 36, but this result was discounted as he was competing as a professional.   , In all, Weissmuller won five Olympic gold medals and one bronze medal, fifty-two United States national championships,  and set sixty-seven world records . He was the first man to swim the 100-meter freestyle under one minute and the 440-yard freestyle under five minutes. He never lost a race and retired with an unbeaten amateur record.    In 1950, he was selected by the Associated Press as the greatest swimmer of the first half of the 20th Century.  , Weissmuller would later, upon moving to the prosperous Bel Air section of Los Angeles, California, (specifically to an area known today as East Gate Bel Air ), famously commission architect Paul Williams to design a large home with a 300-foot serpentine swimming pool that curled around the house (and which still exists to this day).  , In 1929, Weissmuller signed a contract with BVD to be a model and representative. He traveled throughout the country doing swim shows, handing out leaflets promoting that brand of swimwear , signing autographs and going on radio. In that same year, he made his first motion picture appearance as an Adonis , wearing only a fig leaf, in a movie entitled Glorifying the American Girl . He appeared as himself in the first of several Crystal Champions movie shorts featuring Weissmuller and other Olympic champions at Silver Springs, Florida . , He co-starred with Esther Williams in Billy Rose's Aquacade during the New York World's Fair 1939–41, pursuing her throughout a span of two years.  , His acting career began when he signed a seven-year contract with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and played the role of Tarzan in Tarzan the Ape Man (1932). The movie was a huge success and Weissmuller became an overnight international sensation. The author of Tarzan , Edgar Rice Burroughs , was pleased with Weissmuller, although he so hated the studio's depiction of a Tarzan who barely spoke English that he created his own concurrent Tarzan series filmed on location in Central American jungles and starring Herman Brix as a suitably articulate version of the character. , Weissmuller starred in six Tarzan movies for MGM with actress Maureen O'Sullivan as Jane and Cheeta the Chimpanzee. The last three also included Johnny Sheffield as Boy. Then, in 1942, Weissmuller went to RKO and starred in six more Tarzan movies with markedly reduced production values. Unlike MGM, RKO allowed Weissmuller to play other roles, though a three picture contract with Pine-Thomas Productions led to only one film, Swamp Fire , being made, co-starring Buster Crabbe . Sheffield appeared as Boy in the first five features for RKO. Another co-star was Brenda Joyce , who played Jane in Weissmuller's last four Tarzan movies. In a total of twelve Tarzan films, Weissmuller earned an estimated $2,000,000 and established himself as what many movie historians consider the definitive Tarzan. Although not the first Tarzan in movies (that honor went to Elmo Lincoln ), he was the first to be associated with the now traditional ululating, yodeling Tarzan yell. (During an appearance on television's The Mike Douglas Show in the 1970s, Weissmuller explained how the famous yell was created. Recordings of three vocalists were spliced together to get the effect—a soprano , an alto , and a hog caller.) , When Weissmuller finally left that role, he immediately traded his loincloth costume for a slouch hat and safari suit for the role of Jungle Jim (1948) for Columbia . He made thirteen Jungle Jim films between 1948 and 1954. According to actor Michael Fox , Weissmuller would shoot two Jungle Jim films back to back with nine days filming for each with a break of two days between, then he would return to his home in Mexico.  Within the next year due to the rights of the name "Jungle Jim" being taken by Screen Gems, he appeared in three more jungle movies, playing himself. In 1955, he began production of the Jungle Jim television adventure series for Screen Gems , a film subsidiary of Columbia . His costars were Martin Huston and Dean Fredericks . The show produced only twenty-six episodes, which were subsequently played repeatedly on network and syndicated television. Aside from a first screen appearance as Adonis and the role of Johnny Duval in the 1946 film Swamp Fire , Weissmuller played only three roles in films during the heyday of his Hollywood career: Tarzan, Jungle Jim, and himself. , According to David Wallechinsky's Complete Book of the Olympics , while playing in a celebrity golf tournament in Cuba in 1958, Weissmuller's golf cart was suddenly captured by rebel soldiers . Weissmuller sized up the situation, got out of the cart and gave his trademark Tarzan yell. The shocked rebels soon began to jump up and down, calling "Tarzan! Welcome to Cuba!" Johnny and his companions were not only not kidnapped, but were given a rebel escort to the golf course. [ citation needed ] However, Weissmuller didn't do the yell himself for the movies so the anecdote is dubious. , He was an accomplished amateur golfer and played in two official PGA Tour tournaments, at the 1937 Western Open at Canterbury Golf Club outside Cleveland (87-85=172, missed the cut) and the 1948 Hawaiian Open (79-75-79-76=309) to finish in 37th place. , In the late 1950s, Weissmuller moved back to Chicago and started a swimming pool company. He lent his name to other business ventures, but did not have a great deal of success. He retired in 1965 and moved to Fort Lauderdale, Florida , where he was Founding Chairman of the International Swimming Hall of Fame (ISHOF). He was inducted into the ISHOF the same year.  , In September 1966, Weissmuller joined former screen Tarzans James Pierce and Jock Mahoney to appear with Ron Ely as part of the publicity for the upcoming premiere of the Tarzan TV series. The producers also approached Weissmuller to guest star as Tarzan's father, but nothing came of it. [ citation needed ] In the late 60s, early 70s, Weissmuller was involved with a doomed tourist attraction called Tropical/Florida Wonderland , a.k.a. Tarzan's Jungleland, on US 1 in Titusville, Florida . It was a last-ditch effort to transform Florida Wonderland into something much bigger. It failed when Weissmuller and the owners did not see eye to eye, it was shut down for good in 1973. , His face appeared in the collage on the iconic front cover of The Beatles ' 1967 record album Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band . , Based on his interest in natural lifestyles, Weissmuller opened a small chain of health food stores called Johnny Weissmuller's American Natural Foods in California in 1969.   , In 1970, he attended the British Commonwealth Games in Edinburgh , where he was presented to Queen Elizabeth II . That same year, he made an appearance with former co-star Maureen O'Sullivan in The Phynx (1970). , Weissmuller lived in Florida until the end of 1973, then moved to Las Vegas , Nevada , where he worked as a greeter at Caesars Palace along with boxer Joe Louis for a time. In 1976, he appeared for the last time in a motion picture, playing a movie crewman who is fired by a movie mogul, played by Art Carney , in Won Ton Ton, the Dog Who Saved Hollywood , and he also made his final public appearance in that year when he was inducted into the Body Building Guild Hall of Fame. , Weissmuller had five wives: band and club singer Bobbe Arnst (married 1931 – divorced 1933); actress Lupe Vélez (married 1933 – divorced 1939); Beryl Scott (married 1939 – divorced 1948); Allene Gates (married 1948 – divorced 1962); and Maria Baumann (married 1963 – his death 1984). , With his third wife, Beryl, he had three children, Johnny Weissmuller, Jr. (September 23, 1940 – July 27, 2006), Wendy Anne Weissmuller (b. June 1, 1942), and Heidi Elizabeth Weissmuller (July 31, 1944 – November 19, 1962). , In 1974, Weissmuller broke both his hip and leg, marking the beginning of years of declining health. While hospitalized he learned that, in spite of his strength and lifelong daily regimen of swimming and exercise, he had a serious heart condition. In 1977, Weissmuller suffered a series of strokes . In 1979, he entered the Motion Picture & Television Country House and Hospital in Woodland Hills, California for several weeks before moving with his last wife, Maria, to Acapulco, Mexico , the location of his last Tarzan movie.  , On January 20, 1984, Weissmuller died from pulmonary edema at the age of 79.  He was buried just outside Acapulco, Valle de La Luz at the Valley of the Light Cemetery. As his coffin was lowered into the ground, a recording of the Tarzan yell he invented was played three times, at his request.  , His former co-star and movie son, Johnny Sheffield , wrote of him, "I can only say that working with Big John was one of the highlights of my life. He was a Star (with a capital "S") and he gave off a special light and some of that light got into me. Knowing and being with Johnny Weissmuller during my formative years had a lasting influence on my life."  , For his contribution to the motion picture industry, Johnny Weissmuller has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6541 Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood , facing the star of Maureen O'Sullivan . , In 1973, Weissmuller was awarded the George Eastman Award,  given by George Eastman House for distinguished contribution to the art of film.  Aleksandr Vladimirovich Popov (also Alexander Popov, Russian : Александр Владимирович Попов ); (born 16 November 1971) is a Russian former Olympic gold-winning swimmer regarded as one of the greatest sprint freestyle swimmers of all time, and the only swimmer in history, male or female, to win four individual Olympic gold medals in freestyle events. , , , Popov began swimming at age 8 at the Children and Youth Sports School of Fakel Sports Complex in Lesnoy,   at that time afraid of water. However, his father insisted on him taking swimming lessons in that sports school, and in his own words, he has "been stuck there ever since". Popov started out as a backstroker but switched to freestyle when he joined Gennadi Touretski 's squad in 1990 on the initiative by the Head Coach of the USSR National Team Glep Petrov.  He later moved from Russia to Australia to be with his coach. , Popov won the men's 50 m and 100 m freestyle in the Barcelona Olympics in 1992, and repeated his victories in the 1996 Atlanta Olympics , becoming the first man to do so since Johnny Weissmuller . He presented Touretski with his 1996 Olympic gold medal from the 100 m freestyle. "I have a title and I'm on the paper, but, you know, Gennadi hasn't gotten anything from Atlanta or from Barcelona," Popov said. "But I know how much this particular medal means for him, is worth for him." , One month after the Atlanta Olympics, he was stabbed in the abdomen with a knife during a dispute with three Moscow street vendors. The knife sliced his artery, grazed one of his kidneys and damaged the pleura, the membrane that encases the lungs. He had emergency surgery and spent three months in rehabilitation. At the 1997 European Championships in Seville , Spain , he successfully defended his 50 m and 100 m freestyle titles. , In the 2003 Barcelona World Championships , Popov once again made a clean sweep of the men's 50 m and 100 m freestyle events, citing that Barcelona would always be special to him, for it was there that for him, everything first began. He announced his participation in the 2004 Athens Olympics . However, being the oldest competitor at the pool, the gold medal eluded him, and he did not even manage to make it into the finals of both the men's 50 m and 100 m freestyle events. He announced his retirement from the sport in January 2005.  , Popov was elected a full member of the International Olympic Committee in December 1999. He also represents the athletes on the IOC Sport for All Commission and was elected directly as one of seven athletes to the IOC Athletes' Commission by the athletes participating in the 1996 Olympics. He was re-elected to the Athletes Commission at the 2000 Games and is now Honorary Secretary. He was awarded the 1996 Russian Medal of Honour for contributions to sport. He was also named Russian Athlete of the Year and European Sports Press Union Athlete of the Year in 1996. , In June 2003, he confirmed that he was permanently leaving Australia in early 2004 to live in Solothurn , Switzerland . He said the move followed the offer of a business proposition in Switzerland, once he had retired from swimming. He retained Touretski as a long-distance coach. , Popov has both a Bachelor's and Master's Degrees in Sports Coaching from the Russian Academy. He is a spokesman for Omega SA . , He has recently appeared at the closing ceremony of the Beijing Olympics after being elected a member of the IOC, presenting flowers to volunteers. He has been named to the Evaluation Commission for the 2016 Summer Olympics .  , In 2009 he served as chairman of the RC Lokomotiv Moscow rugby league club.  , Since May 2009 he is a member of the supervisory board of Adidas .  , In early 1997 he married Darya Shmeleva , a Russian Olympic swimmer whom he had dated since 1995. They have two sons, Vladimir (b. 1997) and Anton (b. 2000), and a daughter, Mia (b. 22 December 2010).   , Popov is a friend of the legendary wrestler Aleksandr Karelin .  Roland Matthes (born 17 November 1950) is a retired German swimmer and the most successful backstroke swimmer of all times. Between April 1967 and August 1974 he won all backstroke competitions he entered. He won four European championships and three world championships in a row, and swam 19 world and 21 European records in various backstroke, butterfly, freestyle and medley events.   He was trained by Marlies Grohe.  , As an Olympian in 1968, 1972 and 1976 he won a total of eight medals (four gold, two silver and two bronze): In 1968 and 1972 he won gold in both the 100 m and 200 m backstroke, while in 1976 he was third in the 100 m backstroke. In addition to these individual events, he won the 4×100 m team medley silver in 1968 and 1972, and a bronze medal for the 4×100 m freestyle relay.  , In 1973 in Belgrade he became the first world champion holding the titles in both the 100 m and 200 m backstroke . Additionally he won silver in the 4×100 m medley and bronze in the 4×100 m freestyle relay . Two years later in 1975 he defended his world title in the 100 m backstroke. , At the European championships in 1970 in Barcelona and 1974 in Vienna he won all four titles for the 100 and 200 m backstroke. Additionally, in Barcelona he won the individual silver for the 100 m freestyle, gold with the 4×100 m medley team, and bronze with both the 4×100 and 4×200 m freestyle teams. In Vienna, he also won the individual silver for 100 m butterfly, and bronze with the 4×100 m freestyle team. , He was selected East German Sportspersonality of the Year seven times, in 1967–1971, 1973 and 1975. In 1981 he was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame .  , From 1970 to 1977 he studied sport sciences at DHfK in Lepizig and from 1978 to 1984 he studied medicine at the University of Jena .  After graduating he worked as orthopedic surgeon. He retired from swimming in 1976, and in May 1978 married Kornelia Ender , a fellow East German Olympic swimmer. They divorced in 1982.    , The issue of doping in East Germany brought into questioning most achievements of East German athletes. However, Matthes denied any involvement in doping, clarifying that his swimming club was too small to be part of the government system.   Jason Edward Lezak (born November 12, 1975) is an American competition swimmer who is a four-time Olympic gold medalist. He formerly swam for Irvine Novaquatics . He graduated from Irvine High School in 1994, and then from the University of California, Santa Barbara in 1999. , Lezak is a specialist in the 50-meter and 100-meter freestyle races. He also owns long-course world records in the 400m freestyle and medley relays, and is a former American record holder in the 100-meter freestyle. Lezak is one of the few elite swimmers not to have a personal coach. Despite this, Lezak enjoys team sports and fellow American Gary Hall, Jr. dubbed Lezak as a "professional relay swimmer" at the 2004 U.S. Olympic Trials before their match-up in the 100-meter freestyle.   , , , Lezak was born in Irvine, California , the son of Linda (née Mann), an elementary school science teacher, and David Lezak, a former leather goods salesman.  He is Jewish .  The name Lezak is pronounced Leh-Zhack (short e). Lezak attended El Camino Real Elementary School (now Woodbury Elementary School) and Irvine High School , as well as the University of California, Santa Barbara .  He swam for the UC Santa Barbara Gauchos swimming and diving team from 1995 to 1998. Lezak currently lives in Irvine with his wife, Danielle (DeAlva).  , Lezak currently has competed in four Olympic Games, in 2000 , 2004 , 2008 , and 2012 and has earned a total of Eight Olympic medals, two bronze, two silver, and four gold. He earned a spot on the U.S. team in the 2012 Games in London with a sixth-place finish in the 100-meter freestyle at the Olympic trials. , Lezak earned his first long-course international swimming gold medal at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, where he was part of the 4×100-meter medley relay in the Olympics in Sydney. He also won a silver medal in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay . , He competed in several events at the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens, Greece, and was a member of the 4×100-meter medley relay team that set a new world record at the games. He also won a bronze medal in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay and finished fifth in the 50-meter freestyle . , At the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, Lezak was the oldest male on the U.S. swim team. He anchored the U.S. 4×100-meter freestyle relay team that won the gold medal and set a new world record. In the final 25 meters, Lezak overtook French team anchor Alain Bernard (the world record holder in the 100-meter freestyle going into the relay) to win gold despite Bernard having nearly a full body length's advantage when Lezak started his leg and half a body length with 25 meters from the end. Lezak split a 46.06, the fastest 100-meter freestyle split in history, by nearly six tenths of a second. The final time of the American team was 3:08:24, which was 3.99 seconds faster than the previous world record; the French team finished second at 3:08.32, eight one-hundredths (0.08) of a second behind—the closest finish in the event's history. This was a crucial race for Michael Phelps , because he needed it to complete the goal of winning eight gold medals in a single Olympic Games, breaking Mark Spitz 's record of seven gold medals at the 1972 Summer Olympics .  , Lezak also earned his first individual Olympic medal, having tied for the bronze with Brazillian swimmer César Cielo Filho in the 100-meter freestyle with a time of 47.67. , Lezak qualified for his fourth Olympics at the 2012 United States Olympic Trials in Omaha, Nebraska. His sixth-place finish in the Olympic Trial finals was good enough to reach the London Games as a member of the U.S. 4x100-meter freestyle relay team.  At the Olympics in London, Jimmy Feigen , Matt Grevers , Ricky Berens and Lezak swam for the U.S. team in the preliminaries. Nathan Adrian , Michael Phelps , Cullen Jones and Ryan Lochte swam in the finals, and together all these competitors earned a silver medal for the team's second-place finish in the finals.   , In short-course competitions he won five world championships, four relays plus a gold in the 100-meter freestyle in 2004. Lezak has also won seven U.S. Championships, three times in the 50-meter freestyle and four in the 100-meter freestyle. , Lezak forwent the 2009 World Aquatics Championships to compete in the 18th Maccabiah Games in Israel from July 12 to 29, 2009.  Lezak was given the honor of lighting the Maccabiah torch at the Opening Ceremony.  At the Maccabiah Games, Lezak won gold medals in the 50-meter freestyle, 100-meter freestyle, 4×100-meter freestyle relay, and 4×100-meter medley relay.  , His personal bests (long-course) are:  Matthew Grevers (born March 26, 1985) is an American competition swimmer who competes in the backstroke and freestyle events, and is a six-time Olympic medalist. He has won a total of twenty-four medals in major international competition, twelve gold, nine silver, and three bronze spanning the Olympics, World Championships , and the Universiade . At the 2008 Summer Olympics , Grevers won gold medals as a member of the U.S. teams in the 4×100-meter freestyle and 4×100-meter medley relays, and a silver medal in the 100-meter backstroke. Four years later at the 2012 Summer Olympics , he won a gold in the 100-meter backstroke. , , , Grevers was born in Lake Forest, Illinois .  He graduated from Lake Forest High School , and then attended Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois , and swam for the Northwestern Wildcats swimming and diving team. , Both of Grevers' parents are from the Netherlands . Grevers considered representing the Netherlands and even spoke about it with Dutch swimming legend Pieter van den Hoogenband . Ultimately, he decided to represent the United States .  , Grevers proposed to his wife, Annie Chandler, at the Missouri Grand Prix  on Saturday February 11, 2012. The couple were married on April 6, 2013 in San Antonio, Texas.  , At the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, China, Grevers won two gold medals by swimming in the preliminary heats of the 4×100-meter freestyle relay and 4×100-meter medley relay (swimming the backstroke leg) as the Americans went on to win the finals in those events and medals are awarded to participants at any step along the way. Grevers also won an individual silver medal in the 100-meter backstroke in a time of 53.11 second, 0.57 of a second behind the winner, world record holder Aaron Peirsol .    , At the 2009 World Aquatics Championships , Grevers was part of U.S. men's 4×100-meter freestyle relay team who took the gold ahead of Russia and France .  Grevers also earned a gold in the 4×100-meter medley relay for his contributions in the heats.   , At the 2012 United States Olympic Trials , the qualifying meet for the 2012 Olympics, Grevers qualified for the U.S. Olympic team by finishing first in the 100-meter backstroke and third in the 100-meter freestyle. In the final of the 100-meter backstroke, Grevers won in a time of 52.08 seconds, the second-best effort of all time and just behind Aaron Peirsol 's world record of 51.94.  Grevers recorded the fastest time in a textile suit in the 100-meter backstroke. In the 100-meter freestyle, Grevers placed third with a time of 48.55, which ensured him a spot on the 4×100-meter freestyle relay.  Grevers also competed in the 50-meter freestyle, and placed sixth in the final with a time of 22.09.  , At the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, Grevers won a total of three medals: two golds and one silver. Grevers earned his first medal, a silver, by swimming for the second-place U.S. team in the preliminary heats of the 4×100-meter freestyle relay . In the final, the American team finished second behind France. Teaming with Jimmy Feigen , Ricky Berens , and Jason Lezak in the heats, Grevers swam the second leg and recorded a time of 47.59. After leading the heats (52.92) and semifinals (52.66) of the 100-meter backstroke , Grevers won gold in the final of the 100-meter backstroke with a time of 52.16, bettering Aaron Peirsol 's Olympic record of 52.54 set in 2008 and 0.76 s ahead of Nick Thoman . For Grevers, it was his first individual gold medal.  In his final event, the 4×100-meter medley relay , Grevers won gold with Brendan Hansen , Michael Phelps and Nathan Adrian . Swimming the backstroke leg, Grevers recorded a time of 52.58 seconds, and the U.S. team went on to win with a time of 3:29.35. , At the 2013 FINA World Championships in Barcelona, Grevers achieved a total of two medals: a gold and a silver. On the first night of swimming, Grevers missed the top-eight championship roster in the 50-meter butterfly , as he finished his semifinal run with a twelfth-place time in 23.35.  The following day, Grevers threw down the event's fastest time of 52.93 to claim the gold medal in the 100 m backstroke , finishing ahead of his teammate David Plummer by nearly two-tenths of a second.   On the final night of the meet, Grevers swam his last two finals with only 45 minutes in between. First, he posted a matching time of 24.54 to share the silver medal with France's Jérémy Stravius in the 50 m backstroke .   Nearly an hour later, Grevers teamed up with Kevin Cordes , Ryan Lochte , and Nathan Adrian for the final in the 4×100 m medley relay . During the race, Grevers swam the backstroke leg and touched the wall with a split of 53.02 until his teammate Cordes left the block 0.04 seconds early on the breaststroke leg, smashing the medal chances entirely for the Americans with a disastrous disqualification.    Charles Meldrum Daniels (March 24, 1885 – August 9, 1973) was an American competition swimmer , eight-time Olympic medalist, and world record-holder in two freestyle swimming events. Daniels was an innovator of the front crawl swimming style, inventing the " American crawl ".  , Daniels began his swimming career with the New York Athletic Club in 1903. At the 1904 Olympics in St. Louis< Missouri, Daniels became the first American to win an Olympic medal, winning gold medals in both the 200- and 400-meter freestyle races.  , Daniels was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame as an "Honor Swimmer" in 1965.   Kosuke Kitajima ( 北島 康介 , Kitajima Kōsuke ? , born September 22, 1982 in Tokyo) is a Japanese multiple Olympic gold medalist breaststroke swimmer . He won gold medals for the men's 100 m and 200 m breaststroke at both the Athens 2004 , and the Beijing 2008  Summer Olympic games. , , , Kitajima is a decorated swimmer in the world championships and was the world record holder in the 100 m breaststroke that he set at the 2008 Beijing Olympics – this mark has since been bettered by first Brenton Rickard and later Cameron van der Burgh . He was also bronze medal winner in the same Olympics in the 4×100 m medley relay. He edged out his main rival Brendan Hansen who finished fourth while Kitajima won the gold medal and set the new world record. , He received four gold medals, one silver and two bronze medals in total at the 2004, 2008 and 2012 Olympics.  , His most significant rival in the breaststroke was the American swimmer Brendan Hansen . They dueled at events such as the 2005 World Championships , 2004 Summer Olympics and 2003 World Championships . Kitajima set both world records for 100 m and 200 m breaststroke in the latter occasion. Later his best in 200 m was overcome by Dimitri Komornikov and then by Hansen, who also broke Kitajima's record in the 100 m. Kitajima regained the world record (58.91) in the 100 m at the 2008 Summer Olympics . Kitajima regained the 200 m breaststroke world record in June 2008 at the Japan Open. His time of 2:07.51 shaved nearly a second off the previous record of 2:08.50 set by Hansen in 2006.  , During the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens, Kitajima generated buzz for his primal screams of exuberance after edging out Hansen in the 100 m and 200 m breaststroke for the gold. At a pool side interview (3'24") following his victory in the 100 m, Kosuke Kitajima also popularised the phrase 'cho-kimochi-ii,' meaning "I feel really good." The word went on to win the 2004 U-Can Neologisms and Vogue Words contest.  , In long course swimming pools Kitajima's bests are:  Jennifer Elisabeth Thompson (born February 26, 1973), later known by her married name Jenny Cumpelik , is an American former competition swimmer , and one of the most decorated Olympians in history, winning twelve medals, including eight gold medals, in the 1992 , 1996 , 2000 , and 2004 Summer Olympics . , Thompson, a Massachusetts native who calls Dover, New Hampshire her hometown, began swimming at age 7 at a summer country club called Cedardale in Groveland, Massachusetts . During the indoor season, she swam at the Danvers YMCA from ages 8 to 10, and then at the Andover-North Andover YMCA from the ages of 10 to 12. At age 12 she began swimming for Seacoast Swimming Association under coaches Amy and Mike Parratto, and moved to Dover at age 13. , She first appeared on the international scene as a 14-year-old in 1987, when she won the 50-meter freestyle and placed third in the 100-meter freestyle at the Pan American Games . She won her first world championship in 1991, as part of the USA's winning 4×100-meter freestyle relay team, and held the world record in the 50-meter and 100-meter freestyle when she participated in the 1992 Olympics in Barcelona, Spain . , Thompson attended Stanford University , and swam for the Stanford Cardinal swimming and diving team in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) and Pacific-10 Conference competition. She was the recipient of the 1994–95 Honda Sports Award for Swimming and Diving, recognizing her as the outstanding college female swimmer of the year.  , In 2006, Thompson received a medical degree from the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons , completed a residency in anesthesiology at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts , and then a fellowship in pediatric anesthesiology at Children's Hospital of Boston.  , , , Thought to be at the height of her competitive career at the time, Thompson was expected to win up to five gold medals at those Olympics. However, she failed to qualify for the final in the 200-meter freestyle, finished a disappointing fifth in the 50-meter, and finished second in the 100-meter, where she was beaten by Zhuang Yong of China. Thompson won two gold medals as part of the 4×100-meter freestyle and 4×100-meter medley teams. Considerable controversy was raised after the 100-meter freestyle when the U.S. team speculated on the loose doping policy standards in Barcelona—at that time the event winner did not have a mandatory doping test—only the second and fourth-place finishers were tested, based on a random draw. Thompson and her teammates believed that the Olympic champion should be tested and that rule was changed a few months later when nine members of the Chinese swimming team tested positive for steroid use. , Thompson continued her career as a member of the U.S. national team and a member of the Stanford University swimming team, and continued to rank among the world's best swimmers for the next four years. During Thompson's four years at Stanford, she was a member of four NCAA championship teams, considered to be some of the most dominant collegiate teams in NCAA history. During that time, Thompson amassed nineteen individual and relay NCAA titles. However, a poor performance at the 1996 Olympic Trials kept her from competing in any individual event at that year's Games in Atlanta . Despite this, she competed in three gold-medal winning relay teams at the Olympics; the 4×100-meter freestyle, 4×100-meter medley, and 4×200-meter freestyle. She competed as a member of the USA Finswimming Team at the 8th World Championship held in Hungary during August 1996.  , Between 1997 and 1999, Thompson won eight more world championship titles, including three in a row in the 100-meter freestyle. At the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney , Australia she won a bronze in the 100-meter freestyle and was fifth in the 100-meter butterfly. But in the relay events, she swam the anchor leg in helping the USA defend its titles in the 4×100-meter freestyle and the 4×200-meter freestyle relays. She also swam the butterfly leg in the winning 4×100-meter relays. The 4×100-meter freestyle and medley teams set new world records in the process. , At the World Championships that year, she broke the world record in the 100-meter butterfly for the fourth time, winning a qualifying heat in a time of 56.56 en route to a gold medal in the event. , Thompson seemingly retired from competition after the 2000 season with 10 Olympic medals, eight gold, one silver and one bronze, and 12 gold medals at World Championships. In 2001, Thompson moved to New York City to begin studying at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons . However, while attending medical school, she made a return to competition at the 2002 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships in Yokohama , Japan . Thompson won five medals in two days, setting a career-best time in winning the 50-meter freestyle. At the 2003 World Championships, she would win five medals, including two gold medals. , At age 31, Thompson was the oldest member of the 2004 U.S. Swimming and Diving team, competing in her fourth Olympics in Athens , Greece . She was the anchor member of the 400-meter freestyle relay, where she contributed to a national record of 3:36.39 and a silver medal. She earned another silver medal as a member of the 4×100-meter medley relay. During her Olympic career, Thompson won twelve medals, eight of which were relay gold; the most for any female Olympic swimmer in history. , In 2006, Thompson received a medical degree from the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons . She did her internship at the New York City Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center , and residency anesthesiologist at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston .  In June, 2010 she was assaulted when two men attempted to steal her scooter, however she was able to fight off both of her attackers.   , Thompson married Daniel Richard Cumpelik on September 5, 2010.  She currently works as an anesthesiologist for the Spectrum medical group at Maine Medical Center in Portland, Maine. , Thompson has volunteered as a celebrity swimmer for Swim Across America , a charitable organization that raises money for cancer research, since 1995. , She was the 1993 and 1998 USA Swimming Swimmer of the Year, and ranked as the 62nd greatest female athlete of all time in a 1999 poll conducted by Sports Illustrated . She was named by Swimming World Magazine as the Female World Swimmer of the Year in 1998, and as Female American Swimmer of the Year in 1993, 1998 and 1999. She was the Women's Sports Foundation 's Athlete of the Year in 2000. , Her adopted hometown of Dover, New Hampshire has a public swimming pool named in her honor. , ,  Kristin Otto (born 7 February 1966)  is a German Olympic swimming champion. She is most famous for being the first woman to win six gold medals at a single Olympic Games, doing so at the 1988 Seoul Olympic games.   Otto was also the first woman to swim the short course 100 meter backstroke in under a minute,  doing so at an international short course meet at Indiana University in 1983.  , Otto was born in Leipzig , East Germany, and began swimming at the age of 12, training in an East German sports academy. Aged sixteen, she participated in her first world championships, the 1982 World Aquatics Championships , winning the gold medal in the 100 meter backstroke as well as two additional gold medals in the 4×100 m relays with the East German team. , After 1982, Otto changed coaches and began concentrating on other speed strokes. At the following European Championships in 1983, Otto finished second in the 100 meter freestyle, following her fellow East German , Birgit Meineke . , In 1984, Otto set a world record in the 200 meter freestyle. She was expected to win gold medals at the 1984 Los Angeles Olympic games, but was unable to compete due to the boycott by 14 Eastern Bloc countries, including East Germany. In 1985 she fractured a vertebra, keeping her from competing for most of the year or to go to the European Championships. , Otto returned to competitive swimming at the 1986 World Championships in Madrid, where she won 4 gold medals (100 m freestyle, 200 m individual medley, 4×100 m medley relay and 4×100 m freestyle relay) and 2 silver medals (50 m freestyle, 100 m butterfly). Her success continued the following year at the 1987 European Championships where she won 5 gold medals. , At the 1988 Seoul Olympic games she once again was expected to win Olympic gold. She won six gold medals, as well as setting world records in the 50 m freestyle, 100 m freestyle, 100 m backstroke and 100 m butterfly.  , Otto retired from swimming in 1989.  She currently works as a sports reporter for German television. , She was named the Female World Swimmer of the Year in 1984, 1986 and 1988 by Swimming World magazine . , Otto's career was marred by the revelations of widespread performance enhancement drugs use by East German athletes: former teammate Petra Schneider openly admitted that she had used banned substances. However, Otto stated that she was not aware that she was being doped, saying: "The medals are the only reminder of how hard I worked. It was not all drugs."  ,  Amy Deloris Van Dyken (born February 15, 1973) is an American former competitive swimmer , Olympic champion, former world record-holder, and national radio sports talk show co-host. She has won six Olympic gold medals in her career, four of which she won at the 1996 Summer Olympics , making her the first American woman to accomplish such a feat and the most successful athlete at the 1996 Summer Olympics. She won gold in the 50-meter freestyle, 100-meter butterfly, 4×100-meter freestyle relay, and 4×100-meter medley relay. , Van Dyken suffered from severe asthma throughout her childhood and into adulthood. She began swimming on the advice of a doctor as a way to strengthen her lungs to cope with her condition and prevent future asthma attacks. , She was named Swimming World' s American Swimmer of the Year in 1995 and 1996. , On June 6, 2014, Van Dyken was in a severe ATV accident that severed her spinal cord, leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. , , , At the 1992 U.S. Olympic Trials, she placed 4th in the 50-meter freestyle, just missing the Olympic team. After high school, Van Dyken attended the University of Arizona for two years before transferring to Colorado State University , where she broke her first (of many more to come) United States record with a time of 21.77 seconds in the 50-yard freestyle at the NCAA championships in 1994. She also placed second in the 100-yard butterfly and the 100-yard freestyle to Olympian Jenny Thompson . In 1994 she was named the NCAA Female Swimmer of the Year. After college, she moved to the United States Olympic Training Center in Colorado Springs, Colorado, to train full-time for the 1996 Olympics. , At the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia, Van Dyken became the first American female athlete in history to win 4 gold medals in a single Olympic games. Her success in swimming won her a wide variety of awards and accolades, including: the ESPN Awards ( ESPY ) Female Athlete of the Year award; Swimming World magazine's female Swimmer of the Year award; induction into the Colorado Sports Hall of Fame; induction into the US Olympic Hall of Fame;  named Associated Press Female Athlete of the Year , USOC Sports Woman of the Year, the Women’s Sports Foundation Sports Woman of the Year and USA Swimming Swimmer of the Year. She was also featured as one of Glamour magazine's Top 10 Women of the Year, named one of 25 most influential females in sport by Women’s Sports and Fitness magazine and received the ARETE Courage in Sports award. She has graced the cover of several newspapers and magazines, including USA Today , Newsweek , Time , Swimming World magazine, and Sports Illustrated . Van Dyken was a guest on the Late Show with David Letterman , The Rosie O'Donnell Show , and the Today Show . She was featured in a milk ad with a photograph taken by world-renowned photographer Annie Leibovitz , and she was honored with her own Wheaties box. , She continued to compete after the 1996 Olympics, but was plagued by injury, including a shoulder injury which required several operations and which left her unable to train for over a year. She staged a comeback, however, and made the 2000 U.S. Olympic Team in the 50-meter freestyle, the 4×100 medley relay and the 4×100 freestyle relay. At the Olympic Games in Sydney, Australia, Van Dyken won two gold medals in these latter two events, and placed 4th in the 50-meter freestyle. This brought her total career Olympic medal count to six gold medals. In addition to her Olympic accomplishments, Van Dyken won several world titles and set numerous American and world records. , Van Dyken has the distinction of being one of the few Olympians whose medals are all gold. , Van Dyken lost public support when she spit in the lane of rival Inge de Bruijn at the 2000 Summer Olympics . After losing to de Bruijn, Van Dyken responded by saying she, too, could have won a gold medal "if I were a man."  , In 2003, Van Dyken was called to testify before a grand jury regarding the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative (BALCO) steroid scandal.  While Van Dyken was a regular client at BALCO,  she has never tested positive for performance enhancing drugs. , Van Dyken retired from swimming after the 2000 Olympics and married former NFL punter Tom Rouen not long after. They split their time between Colorado and Arizona. , Since her retirement, Van Dyken has toured on a number of speaking engagements to groups as varied as schools and multi-national corporations, she has been a disc jockey on a sports radio show in Arizona, served as the side-line reporter for the Seattle Seahawks and Denver Broncos football teams, and even played in the award-winning stage-play the Vagina Monologues . She is actively involved in a number of charities, including the Make-A-Wish Foundation , and along with husband Rouen runs an annual celebrity fundraiser in Evergreen, Colorado, to raise money for disadvantaged youth. She was the head coach of the varsity swim team at Notre Dame Preparatory High School in Scottsdale, Arizona. On May 12, she was the only American swimmer to be inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame 's Class of 2007. She was inducted to the Olympic Hall of Fame in July 2008. She was a morning drive-time host on 98.7 The Peak FM in Phoenix, Arizona, as a part of "Chris and Amy in the Morning" from 2010 to 2011. She resigned from 98.7 The Peak FM on July 12, 2011, to 'attend to some family issues that are going to take her back to Denver.'  She was the co-host of Fox Sports Radio's Fox Sports Tonight with Rob Dibble  until December 2013.  , On June 6, 2014, Van Dyken was in a severe ATV accident and severed her spinal cord at the T11 vertebra . She was conscious when rescued and airlifted to a hospital where she had emergency surgery to stabilize her spinal cord and vertebral column. Following the initial surgical measures, she was in satisfactory condition. The injury to the area came within millimeters of impacting and potentially rupturing her aorta . However, the accident did leave her paralyzed from the waist down.  After two months of rehabilitation, Van Dyken left Craig Hospital in Englewood, Colorado, saying, "I’m a better person than before the injury,"  and took her first steps.  , ,  Krisztina Egerszegi ( Hungarian pronunciation:  [ˈkristinɒ ˈɛɡɛrsɛɡi] ; born 16 August 1974 in Budapest, Hungary ) is a Hungarian former world record holding swimmer and one of the greatest Hungarian Olympic champions of the modern era. She is a three-time Olympian ( 1988 , 1992 and 1996 ) and five time Olympic champion; and one of three individuals ( Dawn Fraser and Michael Phelps being other two) to have ever won the same swimming event at three Summer Olympics. She is the most successful and greatest female swimmer of all-time with 5 individual Olympic gold medals and she is the first and only female swimmer who won 5 individual Olympic gold medals.    , She held the world record in the long course 200 m backstroke for almost 17 years (August 1991 – February 2008), after setting it at the 1991 European Championships (2:06.62). As of June 2009, that time remains the European and Hungarian records . It is the oldest record on the European list, and the second-oldest on the Hungarian list — Egerszegi's former world record in the 100 m backstroke (1:00.31), set 3 days prior to the 200 m backstroke, is the oldest. She is considered by many to be the greatest female backstroker of all-time. , , , She made her international debut at the 1987 European Aquatics Championships at the age of 13, coming fourth in the 200 m backstroke and fifth in the 100 m backstroke. , At the 1988 Summer Olympics she won silver medal in the 100 m backstroke and became Olympic champion in the 200 m backstroke. At the age of 14 years and 41 days she became the youngest-ever female Olympic champion in swimming. This youth record was broken in 1992 by Kyoko Iwasaki of Japan, who won a gold medal in the 200 meter breaststroke at the 1992 Barcelona Olympic Games at the age of 14 years and six days. , At the 1989 European Aquatics Championships she competed in three events adding the 400 m medley to the 100 m and 200 m backstroke, winning silver medal in all three events despite she struggled with a strong cold during the entire Championships. , In 1991 she competed at the World Championships winning the gold medal in both backstroke events. Few months later at the European Championships she won three gold medals and set World records in the 100 m and 200 m backstroke event. , At the 1992 Summer Olympics she won three individual gold medals, becoming the only female athlete at the Games to do so. The next year at the European Championships she competed in the 200 m butterfly for the first time and went on to win four gold medals also winning the 400 m medley and the 100 m and 200 m backstroke. , In 1994, she announced that she would retire after the World Championships in Rome which was overshadowed by the suspicious Chinese swimmers' performances. China won 12 of the 16 women's titles, however these achievements were sullied less than a month later when seven Chinese swimmers tested positive for banned drugs at the Asian Games in Hiroshima.    In Rome, Egerszegi lost on 100 m and 200 m backstroke, the events were won by He Cihong ,who was only 13th (1:03.50!) on 100 m backstroke 2 years earlier in Barcelona, where Egerszegi won with an Olympic record time (1:00.68). In 1996, at the Olympic Games in Atlanta, He Cihong was 25th on the 100 m backstroke. On the 200 m backstroke,He Cihong qualified for nor Barcelona, neither Atlanta; both Olympic golds won by Egerszegi. After getting fifth place in the 100 m backstroke and coming second in the 200 m backstroke, Egerszegi decided to compete for two more years, citing the two defeats as the main reason. , She competed at the 1995 European Aquatics Championships where she won the last two of her nine European titles in the 400 m medley and the 200 m backstroke event. For the first time, she competed in the 4x100 m medley relay where one of her teammates was a young Ágnes Kovács , a future Olympic champion. They came second and Egerszegi has named this silver medal as 'the one that made her the happiest'. She decided not to compete in the 100 m backstroke even though her time of 1:00.93 clocked during the 4x100 m relay final was better than Mette Jacobsen 's winning time of 1:02.46 by almost two seconds. , At the 1996 Summer Olympics she won her first and only Olympic bronze medal in the 400 m medley and went on to win the 200 m backstroke becoming the second of only three swimmers in Olympic history (Dawn Fraser and Michael Phelps being the other two) to win gold for the same event at three successive Olympics (200 m backstroke: 1988, 1992, 1996). Between the winning time of Egerszegi(2:07.83) and time of the runner-up Whitney Hedgepeth (2:11.98), the margin of victory was 4.15 seconds, which is the greatest in any women's 200m event in the swimming history! In 1996, Egerszegi did not enter the 100m backstroke, however her leadoff backstroke time in the medley relay, 1:01.15, was faster than the winning time in the 100m backstroke final.  , Between 1988 and 1996 she won 5 individual Olympic gold medals , which was a record for a swimmer for individual gold medal wins. This record has since been broken by Michael Phelps , who has to date won 11 individual gold medals. Egerszegi still holds the record with 5 individual Olympic gold medals as the most of any female swimmers in the history of the sport. , Egerszegi announced her retirement from swimming soon after the Olympic games, at the age of only 22. In the same year, she became the board member of the Hungarian Swimming Association and in 2007 the member of the Hungarian Olympic Committee. , Her 1988 winning in Seoul became one of the biggest TV-moments in Hungary. The famous phrase "Come on Little Mouse! Come on little girl!" ("Gyerünk Egérke! Gyerünk kicsi lány!") by Tamás Vitray, who was the speaker on the air, is part of the popular culture. Egerszegi is still regarded as the role model of the "champion" in the country. , Her nickname was "Egérke" ("Little Mouse") or "Egér" ("Mouse"), a play on her surname, because of her youthfulness and size. After the 1992 Summer Olympics , where she was the most won three individual gold medals and became the only female athlete at the Games to do so, she was called as Krisztina Királynő ("Queen Kristina") both in the Hungarian and in some international media. , In 1993, László Ládonyi and György Volly published a biographical book "Egerszegi" about her career. , In 2000, a documentary film called Egerszegi was made about her swimming career.  , She was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame in 2001.  She was named Hungarian Sportswoman of the Year on a record-breaking seven occasions (1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 and 1996) and Female World Swimmer of the Year three times. , Krisztina Egerszegi, one of the most prominent FINA athletes of all times, was awarded the Olympic Order on June 23, 2001, during the celebration of the Olympic Day by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in Lausanne (SUI). , On August 20, 2013, Krisztina Egerszegi has been awarded with the highest State Order of Hungary, the Order of Saint Stephen Hungary Medal by the President of the Republic of Hungary János Áder in the Sándor Palace in Budapest.  , ,  Dara Grace Torres (born April 15, 1967) is an American former competition swimmer who is a twelve-time Olympic medalist and former world record-holder in three events. Torres is the first and only swimmer to represent the United States in five Olympic Games (1984, 1988, 1992, 2000 and 2008), and, at age 41, was the oldest swimmer ever to earn a place on the U.S. Olympic team. At the 2008 Summer Olympics , she competed in the 50-meter freestyle , 4×100-meter medley relay , and 4×100-meter freestyle relay, and won silver medals in all three events. , Torres has won twelve Olympic medals (four gold, four silver, four bronze), one of three women with the most Olympic women's swimming medals. She won five medals at the 2000 Summer Olympics when, at age 33, she was the oldest member of the 2000 U.S. Olympic Swim Team. She has also won at least one medal in each of the five Olympics in which she has competed, making her one of only a handful of Olympians to earn medals in five different Games. , , , Torres was born in Los Angeles, California , the daughter of Edward Torres and Marylu Kauder.  Her father was a Cuban -born real estate developer and casino owner; her mother Marylu was a former model.   Torres grew up in Beverly Hills, California , the fifth of six children and the older of two girls.  As a 7-year-old, she followed in the footsteps of her older brothers by joining their community Y.M.C.A. for swimming practice; afterward, she signed up for the swimming club in Culver City to train.  At 14, she won the national open championship in the 50-yard freestyle by defeating the then-current champion, Jill Sterkel , a college junior.  , She attended the Westlake School for Girls (now Harvard-Westlake School ),  and competed for the Westlake swim team under coach Darlene Bible from the seventh grade through her sophomore year in high school.  She was also a member of the Westlake basketball, gymnastics and volleyball teams.  During her 1983–84 high school junior year, she left home to swim for the Mission Viejo Nadadores in Mission Viejo, California , while training for her first Olympics under coach Mark Schubert .  After the 1984 Olympics, Torres returned to the Westlake School to graduate in 1985.  , Torres accepted an athletic scholarship to attend the University of Florida in Gainesville, Florida, where she swam for the Florida Gators swimming and diving team in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) competition under coach Randy Reese from 1986 to 1989.  In her four years as a Gator swimmer, Torres won nine Southeastern Conference (SEC) individual championships, including the 50-yard freestyle (1987, 1988, 1989), 100-yard freestyle (1987, 1988, 1989), 200-yard freestyle (1987), and 100-yard butterfly (1988, 1989); she was also a member of twelve of the Gators' SEC championship relay teams.  Torres won three NCAA individual national championships (50-yard freestyle, 100-yard freestyle, 100-yard butterfly) in 1988; and was a member of six of the Gators' NCAA championship relay teams, including the 400-yard freestyle relay in 1986; the 200-yard and 400-yard medley relays, and the 400-yard freestyle relay in 1988; and the 200-yard and 400-yard medley relays in 1989.  She was named the SEC Athlete of the Year in 1988, SEC Female Swimmer of the Year in 1987 and 1989, and earned twenty-eight All-American swimming honors—the maximum number possible during a college career.   Torres also lettered in volleyball at Florida, playing the sport in her fifth year after having exhausted her NCAA eligibility in swimming.  , Torres graduated from the university with a bachelor's degree in telecommunications in 1990, and was inducted into the University of Florida Athletic Hall of Fame as a "Gator Great" in 1999.   In November 2013, she was named as a recipient of the 2014 NCAA Silver Anniversary Award , presented annually to six distinguished former student-athletes on the 25th anniversary of their final school year of athletic eligibility.  , At the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, Torres was a member of the winning U.S. women's 4×100-meter freestyle relay team, swimming in the first-round qualifying heat and earning a gold medal in the event final.  Her winning teammates in that final included Nancy Hogshead , Jenna Johnson and Carrie Steinseifer ; Jill Sterkel and Mary Wayte also swam in the event's second-round qualifying heat.  , For the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea, Torres qualified for the U.S. Olympic women's team in one individual event and two relay events. Torres earned a bronze medal for swimming for the third-place U.S. women's team in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay final, together with teammates Mitzi Kremer , Laura Walker and Mary Wayte .   She also earned a silver medal for swimming the freestyle leg of the 4×100-meter medley relay for the second-place U.S. team in the preliminary heats, but not the final.  Individually, Torres also placed seventh in the final of the 100-meter freestyle event.  , Torres qualified for the U.S. Olympic women's team in a single event for the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona. She swam the second leg of the 4×100-meter freestyle relay for the winning U.S. team that included Nicole Haislett , Angel Martino and Jenny Thompson , and earned a gold medal for her efforts in the event final and first-round qualifying heat.   , After seven years out of competitive swimming, Torres began to train for an Olympic comeback in 1999 under the guidance of coach Richard Quick .  She won five medals at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, but saved her best for two of the major relay events of the U.S. Olympic women's team.   She swam the second leg for the winning U.S. women's team in final of the 4×100-meter freestyle relay that included Amy Van Dyken , Courtney Shealy and Jenny Thompson .  Torres won a second gold medal for anchoring the winning U.S. team in the 4×100-meter medley relay , together with teammates B.J. Bedford, Megan Quann and Jenny Thompson in the final.  Individually, Torres also earned bronze medals – her first Olympic medals in individual events – in each of the 50-meter freestyle , the 100-meter butterfly and the 100-meter freestyle ,   tying teammate and rival Jenny Thompson for third place in the last event.   At 33 years old, Torres became the oldest woman to win an Olympic medal in swimming.  She was the oldest member of the U.S. Olympic swim team, but won more medals (5) than any other U.S. team member.   , On August 1, 2007, at age 40 and just 16 months after giving birth to her first child, Torres won the 100-meter freestyle at the U.S. Nationals in Indianapolis.  On August 4, she set a new American record in the 50-meter freestyle of 24.53 seconds, breaking her own record of 24.63 seconds set at the 2000 Summer Olympics.  She lowered her initial American record by 1.62 seconds. Torres has broken or lowered her own American record in the 50-meter freestyle ten times, which is the most by any American swimmer in any event.  , At the 2008 U.S. Olympic Trials , Torres returned to the pool and qualified for a spot in her fifth Olympic Games at the age of 41, unprecedented for an American female swimmer.  She became the oldest U.S. Olympic swimmer in history and the first American swimmer to appear in five Olympic Games.  , At the trials, she qualified for the event finals in the 50-meter freestyle and broke the American record with a time of 24.38 seconds in the semifinal.  In the 50-meter finals, she broke that record for the ninth time, setting it at 24.25 seconds and winning the top American women's spot in the event.  Torres also qualified in the 100-meter freestyle,  but later withdrew from the individual 100-meter freestyle event to focus her efforts on the 50-meter freestyle and 4x100-meter relay events.  On July 30, at the U.S. swim team's final training in Singapore, Torres, Amanda Beard and Natalie Coughlin were elected captains of the U.S. Olympic women's swimming team.  , In order to pre-empt any speculation that she might be taking performance-enhancing drugs, Torres volunteered for a new enhanced drug-testing program by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency (USADA).  "I want to be an open book", she said. "I want people to know that I'm 41, and I'm doing this right. I'm clean."  In addition to employing her training team of coach Michael Lohberg, a sprint coach, a chiropractor and two masseuses, Torres used resistance stretching trainers, calling it her "secret weapon" for continued success.   Her $100,000-per-year training costs were partially subsidized by her corporate sponsors Speedo , Toyota and Bloomberg L.P.  , At the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, Torres won a silver medal as the anchor swimmer of the second-place U.S. team in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay .  It was the fifth time in five tries she earned an Olympic medal in the 4x100-meter freestyle relay.  With the American relay team's second-place finish, she became the oldest swimmer to win a medal in Olympic history, surpassing British swimmer William Robinson , who was 38 at the time of the 1908 Summer Olympics.  , On August 17, 2008, she won the silver medal in the 50-meter freestyle , finishing in a new American record time of 24.07 seconds, one one-hundredth (0.01) of a second behind the winner, Britta Steffen .  Her second-place time was a new American record, and 0.18 of a second faster than she swam at the U.S. Olympic Trials.  Thirty-five minutes later, she won another silver medal swimming the freestyle anchor leg for the second-place U.S. team in the 4×100-meter medley relay .  Her split on the 4×100 medley relay (52.27 seconds) was the fastest 100-meter freestyle split in relay history.  The American record for the women's 100-meter freestyle as an individual event was 53.39 seconds as of August 2008, making Torres' time more than a full second faster.  , Torres' twelve Olympic medals tied the all-time medal record for a female Olympic swimmer set by fellow American Jenny Thompson in 2004; American Natalie Coughlin subsequently equaled the record in 2012.  , At the U.S. National Championships in 2009, Torres won the 50-meter freestyle with the fourth-best time in the world for the year (24.42), and she also placed in the 50-meter butterfly, qualifying her to compete in those events at the 2009 World Championships .  This was the first time since 1986 that Torres competed in the World Championships; she placed eighth in the 50-meter freestyle and she did not advance beyond the qualifying heats in the 50-meter butterfly. , Following reconstructive surgery of one of her knees, she began training with the goal of competing in the 2012 Summer Olympics .  At the 2012 United States Olympic Trials , she placed fourth in the finals of the 50-meter freestyle, 0.32 of a second behind the winner, Jessica Hardy , and 0.09 of a second behind the second qualifier, Kara Lynn Joyce .   Only the top two finishers in each trials event qualified for the 2012 U.S. Olympic Team, and as a result, Torres concluded her Olympic career.  After the 2012 Trials, Torres announced her retirement from competitive swimming, concluding her career with 12 Olympic medals.  Her Olympic career spanned twenty-four years from 1984 to 2008 and five Olympic Games (1984, 1988, 1992, 2000, 2008).  , Torres has worked in television as a reporter and announcer for American networks NBC , ESPN , TNT , OLN and Fox News Channel , and hosted the golf show The Clubhouse on the Resort Sports Network .  She has also worked as a model, and was the first elite swimmer to model swimwear in the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue , appearing in the 1994 edition.  She was elected to the International Jewish Sports Hall of Fame in 2005.  , After 1992, she married and subsequently divorced sports producer Jeff Gowen.  After 2000, she married Israeli-born surgeon Itzhak Shasha, after converting to Judaism before the marriage (her father had been Jewish).  Torres and Shasha later divorced.  Torres and reproductive endocrinologist David Hoffman began dating after her break-up with Shasha, and they became the parents of Tessa Grace Torres-Hoffman, born in 2006.  After the birth of their daughter, Hoffman, a masters swimmer, persuaded her to begin training again.  , Torres is a veteran celebrity swimmer for Swim Across America , a charitable organization that raises funds for cancer research in which she has participated for several years.  She is the author of two books: Age is Just a Number: Achieve Your Dreams at Any Stage in Your Life (with Elizabeth Weil), and Gold Medal Fitness: A Revolutionary 5-Week Program (with Billie Fitzpatrick).  , Women's 50-meter freestyle , Women's 4x100-meter freestyle relay , Women's 4x100-meter medley relay , ,  Dawn Fraser , AO ,  MBE (born 4 September 1937) is an Australian champion swimmer and former politician. She is one of only three swimmers to have won the same Olympic event three times – in her case the 100-metre freestyle.  , Within Australia, during her swimming career she was often known for her controversial behaviour and larrikin character as much as for her athletic ability. She outgrew that reputation and received many honours after her competitive swimming career ended. , , , Fraser was born in the Sydney suburb of Balmain in 1937 into a working-class family. She was spotted at the early age of 14 by Sydney coach Harry Gallagher swimming at the local sea baths. , Fraser won eight Olympic medals, including four gold medals, and six Commonwealth Games gold medals. She also held 39 records. The 100 metres freestyle record was hers for 15 years from 1 December 1956 to 8 January 1972. , She is the first of only three swimmers in Olympic history ( Krisztina Egerszegi of Hungary and Michael Phelps of the United States being the two others) to have won individual gold medals for the same event at three successive Olympics (100 metres freestyle – 1956, 1960, 1964) . , In October 1962, she became the first woman to swim 100 metres freestyle in less than one minute.  It was not until 1973, eight years after Fraser retired, that her 100m record of 58.9 secs was broken.  , During the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, Fraser angered swimming team sponsors and the Australian Swimming Union (ASU) by marching in the opening ceremony against their wishes, and wearing an older swimming costume in competition because it was more comfortable than the one supplied by the sponsors. She was accused of stealing an Olympic flag from a flagpole outside Emperor Hirohito 's palace from the Kōkyo . She was arrested but released without charge. In the end she was given the flag as a souvenir.  However, the Australian Swimming Union suspended her for 10 years. They relented a few months before the 1968 Games but by then it was too late for Fraser, at 31, to prepare. , She later denied having swum the moat to steal the flag, telling The Times in 1991: "There's no way I would have swum that moat. I was terrified of dirty water and that moat was filthy. There's no way I'd have dipped my toe in it." , Fraser became a publican at the Riverview Hotel , Balmain, and took up swimming coaching. In 1988, she was elected an independent Member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly (MLA) for the seat of Balmain . Fraser left politics when the seat was abolished in 1991 and she failed to win the new seat of Port Jackson .   Fraser is a high profile supporter and a board director of the Wests Tigers NRL club.  , She was named the Australian of the Year in 1964,  was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame in 1965,  was made a Member of the Order of the British Empire in 1967,  and appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) in 1998.  Also in 1998, she was voted Australia's greatest female athlete in history. [ citation needed ] She was named Australian Female Athlete of the Century by the Sport Australia Hall of Fame ,  who had inducted her as their first female member in 1985.  In 1999 the International Olympic Committee named her the World's Greatest Living Female Water Sports Champion. [ citation needed ] on 14 July 2000, Fraser was awarded the Australian Sports Medal for "outstanding contribution as a swimming competitor".  , She was one of the bearers of the Olympic Torch at the opening ceremony of the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney. She carried the Olympic Torch at the stadium, as one of the bearers for the final segment, before the lighting of the Olympic Flame . , The Australian Sport Awards includes an award named in honour of and presented by Fraser. In 1992, the State Transit Authority named a RiverCat ferry after Fraser. , In 1979, a movie called Dawn! was made about Fraser's life and career. It starred Bronwyn Mackay-Payne as Fraser. , Fraser was played by Melissa Thomas in the 2003 film Swimming Upstream . Fraser herself is credited in the film as Dawn Fraser's coach. , Fraser married Gary Ware on 30 January 1965 at St Stephens Church, Macquarie Street, Sydney.  The marriage was short-lived. She has one daughter from the marriage, Dawn-Lorraine, who has a son, Jackson.    Kornelia Ender (born 25 October 1958 in Plauen , Saxony ) is a former East German swimmer who at the 1976 Summer Olympics became the first woman swimmer to win four gold medals at a single Olympic Games, all in world record times. It was later proven that the East German team doctors had systematically administered steroids to their athletes  (albeit without the athletes' knowledge). As an athlete who had exhibited symptoms of steroid use in 1976 (deep voice, overdeveloped body), strong suspicion was cast on the validity of Ender's accomplishments. , Ender trained from a young age and won her first Olympic medals as a 13-year-old at the 1972 Olympics in Munich : three silver medals, including one in the individual 200 m individual medley, finishing behind Australia 's Shane Gould . Over the following years she broke 32 world records in individual events, including the four at the Montreal Games . In 1991, she addressed the long-held suspicions about her physical condition at the 1976 Games, acknowledging that team doctors and coaches had given her numerous injections of drugs over the preceding months. Ender said that she did not know at the time, nor had she ever subsequently found out, exactly what the drugs were. She said she was told only that the drugs would help her "regenerate and recuperate", and therefore, although she was surprised by the muscle mass she added, she nonetheless attributed it simply to her rigorous training. , Ender was married for four years to East German backstroke swimmer and multiple Olympic champion Roland Matthes . She is now married to former East German - German track and field athlete and bobsledder Steffen Grummt .  Inge de Bruijn ( Dutch pronunciation: [ˈɪŋə də ˈbrœyn] ; born 24 August 1973) is a Dutch former swimmer. She is a four-time Olympic champion and a former world record holder. , , , De Bruijn was born in Barendrecht , Netherlands , and tried several sports before eventually specializing in swimming. , De Bruijn debuted at the World Aquatics Championships in January 1991, winning a bronze medal with the 4×100 m relay team, with which she won the gold medal at the European LC Championships in August of that year. , The following year, de Bruijn made her Olympic debut at the 1992 Summer Olympics , and finished 8th in the 100 m and 4×100 m freestyle events. She did not compete at the 1996 Summer Olympics . In 1999, she won the 50 m freestyle at the European Championships. The following year, after having swum several 50 m freestyle world records , she competed in the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia. She won the 50 and 100 m freestyle, and the 100 m butterfly , setting world records in all three events. She also won a silver medal with the 4×100 m freestyle relay team. Her nickname became "Invincible Inky". , She was named by Swimming World as the " Female World Swimmer of the Year " in both 2000 and 2001. She won titles in three events at the 2001 World Championships. At the 2003 World Championships, de Bruijn successfully defended her 50 m freestyle and butterfly titles. At the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens she defended her gold medal in the 50 m free, and took silver in the 100 m free, and two bronze: one in the 100 m butterfly and another in the 4×100 m relay. , With an Olympic medal total of four gold, two silver and two bronze, she is the second most successful Dutch Olympian of all time. Moreover, her combined nine individual titles won at the Olympics (four) and World Aquatics Championships (five) are a record for female swimmers. , In March 2007, de Bruijn announced her retirement from competitive swimming. , De Bruijn resides in Eindhoven , Netherlands, and previously trained in Portland, Oregon . , She was the face for Dutch lingerie brand Sapph , along with kickboxer Remy Bonjasky , the face for the men's line of the brand.   Lisbeth "Libby" Constance Trickett , OAM (born 28 January 1985), née Lisbeth Constance Lenton , is an Australian competition swimmer. She was a gold medallist at the 2004 Summer Olympics , the 2008 Summer Olympics and the 2012 Summer Olympics . She is the world record holder in the short-course (25m) 100 metres freestyle. , , , Trickett was educated at Somerville House . She married swimmer Luke Trickett among scenes of tight security at Taronga Zoo on Sydney Harbour on 7 April 2007. The couple entered via a "walking tent", due to the exclusive photo deal the couple had with women's magazine New Idea .  The couple revealed later they split the photo profits between three charities.  In March 2015, the couple announced that they were expecting their first child, due in September, after suffering a miscarriage in August 2014.  , She changed to swimming under her married name at the Australian 2008 Olympic selection trials.  , On 9 September 2009 she announced that she would take an extended break from swimming and consider retirement. On 14 December 2009 she retired from swimming at the age of 24.  In September 2010, she announced that she would be returning to competition.  , Trickett emerged on the world scene in March 2003 at the Australian championships, by July she was a medal contender in multiple events at the 2003 World Championships in Barcelona. , At the 2003 World Championships, Trickett picked up her first individual medal on the international level in the 50 m freestyle capturing the bronze medal, while placing 5th in the 100 m freestyle, 14th in the 50 m and 19th over the 100 m butterfly, her individual inconsistency came to an end when she won another bronze in the 4×100 m freestyle relay. Her fastest 100 m freestyle sprint in which she set in the lead off leg in the relay would have captured herself another bronze in the individual 100 m freestyle. , Trickett is currently employed by Megaport - an Australian dark fiber carrier - as a National Channel and Partner Manager  , Trickett was also a bronze medalist in the women's 50 m freestyle . She had previously been the holder of the 100 m freestyle world record (53.66) set at the Olympic swimming trials held in Sydney, Australia on 31 March 2004, but lost this to teammate Jodie Henry (53.52) during the semi finals of the event at the 2004 Athens Olympics. , In July 2005, at the FINA World Championships in Montreal, Canada, Trickett was one of the form swimmers of the meet. She won the 50 m freestyle in a time of 24.59 to record her maiden championship at international level. She also achieved a silver medal in the 100 m butterfly (57.37). She was a member of three relay teams, the 4×100 metre freestyle relay, 4×100 metre medley relay, and the 4×200 metre freestyle relay teams, winning gold (3:37.22), gold (3:57.47) and silver (7:54.00) in the respective events. Fairly new to the 200 m freestyle event, Trickett got recorded the then fourth fastest time in history clocking 1:57.06 as lead-off swimmer in the final of the 4×200 m freestyle relay. The time being more than 1.5 seconds faster than the individual gold medallist Solenne Figuès (1.58.60) (France). Trickett did not compete in the individual 100 m freestyle because she placed third in the event at the Australian championship, but her 100 m freestyle split times were faster than the individual 100 m freestyle gold medalist and world record holder Jodie Henry, which earned her the honor of swimming in the final of the medley relay. Despite not competing in the individual 100 m and 200 m freestyle), she did finish 2005 ranked number one in the world in both events. , On returning to Australia, Trickett continued her rich vein of form, lowering the 100 m short course freestyle world record on consecutive nights at the Australian Short Course Championships to 51.70 s. , 2005 brought a further world record in the short-course 200 m freestyle at the Sydney , Australia stop of the 2005 FINA World Cup series (Sydney – 19 November) with Trickett recording a time of 1:53.29 to beat the previous record by 0.75 seconds. , However, Trickett regained her 100 m freestyle world record on 31 January 2006 at the Australian Championships in Melbourne. Her time of 53.42 was 0.1 sec faster than the previous record held by Henry. On 2 August 2006, German swimmer Britta Steffen broke Trickett's 100 m freestyle world record at the 2006 European Championships in Budapest, Hungary, with a time of 53.30. Trickett again regained the world record with a time of 52.88 on 27 March 2008 at the 100 m finals of the Australian Olympic Trials. She is the current 100 m freestyle and 50 m freestyle world record holder. , At the 2006 Commonwealth Games she won silver medals in the women's 100 m butterfly and 200 m freestyle events. She defeated Henry to claim the 50 m and 100 m freestyle, and was a part of the winning 4×200 m and 4×100 m freestyle relay teams, as well as breaking the world record in the 4×100 m medley relay, where her split of 52.87 s eclipsed the previous best by Henry. She took 5 of Australia's 12 gold medals in the 2006 Short Course World Championships in Shanghai, being named the leading female swimmer of the meet. , In the latter part of 2006, Trickett won four titles at the Australian Short Course Nationals – both the 50 m and 100 m freestyle and butterfly events. More commonly known for her freestyle expertise, she set a new Australian and Commonwealth record in the 50 m butterfly and a new world record for the 100 m butterfly. , On 26 March, Trickett added another gold by winning the women's 100 m butterfly in a championship record time – 57.15 seconds – touching the wall just 0.09 seconds ahead of her second-placed team-mate Jessicah Schipper and American Natalie Coughlin . Then, on 1 April, she won another gold by an amazing nine one-hundredths of a second. , Shortly following the 2007 World Championships, on 3 April, at the biannual Duel in the Pool meet between Australia and the USA swimming teams (in Sydney, Australia in 2007), she swam a 100 m freestyle in 52.99, well under the existing world record of 53.30 by Germany's Britta Steffen, and making her the first woman under 53 seconds in a long-course (50 m) pool. The time was not accepted by FINA as the world record, because the race the time was swum in is not, itself, a recognized FINA event according to the ruling. , Trickett went on to officially break the record in a time of 52.88 s on 27 March 2008 in the 100 m finals of the Australian Olympic Trials.  Two days later on 29 March 2008 she broke the world record for the 50 m freestyle finals in the Australian Olympic Trials with a time of 23.97, taking 0.12 seconds off the previous record and being the first women to be under the 24 second barrier.  , At the Beijing Olympics, Trickett's first final was the 4×100 m freestyle capturing a bronze medal, despite setting a new Australian record. Her next final was the 100 m butterfly in which she captured Gold setting a new Australian record, making her the second fastest in that event in history. Trickett's next event was the 100 m freestyle, where she was the world record holder. Trickett was ahead of world record pace in the first 50 m but was overtaken in the last few meters by rival Britta Steffen who captured the gold. Trickett later contested the 50 m freestyle (another event she was the world record holder) but did not get on the podium finishing just outside the medals in fourth. In what seemed to be a terrible Olympics for Trickett, things finally turned when her last event was the 4×100 m medley relay. In what was a competitive race at early on, turned in the Aussies favor down the stretch as they captured gold and a new world record. , After the Olympics Trickett split with Widmar, who had coached her from before she made her debut for Australia. Trickett said that she needed a change to rejuvenate her. She joined the Sopac Swim Club under Grant Stoelwinder in Sydney. Stoelwinder is a sprint coach and currently mentors Eamon Sullivan . , Trickett had a great start to the 2009 World Championships, capturing bronze in the 4×100 m freestyle relay, setting an Australian record in the lead off. Her next individual performances were somewhat anti-climactic, in the 100 m freestyle she finished with another bronze and finished 5th in the 50 m Freestyle. and the final night she anchored the medley relay to a silver. , After retiring in December 2009, she announced her return to swimming in September 2010. At the 2012 Olympic Trials she narrowly missed a berth in the 100 m butterfly finishing 3rd. Later on in the meet she finished 5th in the 100 m freestyle, booking a spot on the 4 × 100m freestyle relay. , Trickett raced the heats of the 4 × 100 m freestyle relay team, Australia went on to win gold in the final setting a new Olympic record, she took the 4th Olympic gold of her career.  Janet Beth Evans (born August 28, 1971) is an American former competition swimmer who specialized in distance freestyle events. Evans was a world champion and world record-holder, and won a total of four gold medals at the 1988 and the 1992 Olympics. , , , Born in Fullerton, California , Evans grew up in neighboring Placentia , where she started swimming competitively as a child. By the age of 11, she was setting national age group records in distance events. After swimming as a teenager for Fullerton Aquatics (FAST Swimming) and graduating from El Dorado High School ,  Evans attended Stanford University , where she swam for the Stanford Cardinal swimming and diving team from 1989 to 1991. She received the Honda Sports Award for Swimming and Diving, recognizing her as the outstanding college female swimmer of the year in 1988–89.  When the NCAA placed weekly hours limits on athletic training time, she quit the Stanford swim team to focus on training. She later attended the University of Texas at Austin before graduating from the University of Southern California with a bachelor's degree in communications in 1994.  , Evans was distinctive for her unorthodox "windmill" stroke and her apparently inexhaustible cardio-respiratory reserves. Slight of build and short of stature, she more than once found herself competing and winning against bigger and stronger athletes, some of whom were subsequently found to have been using performance-enhancing drugs. [ citation needed ] , Janet Evans was the 1989 recipient of the James E. Sullivan Award as the top amateur athlete in the United States. She was named the Female World Swimmer of the Year by Swimming World Magazine in 1987, 1989, and 1990. , After retiring from competitive swimming, Evans worked as a motivational speaker and corporate spokesperson for companies such as AT&T , Speedo , Campbell's , PowerBar , John Hancock , Cadillac , and Xerox . In 2008, Evans competed on the NBC show Celebrity Circus .  , In 2010, Evans returned to competitive swimming in Masters swimming .  , Evans married Bill Willson in 2004, with whom she has two children. As of June 2012, the family lives in Laguna Beach, California .  , In 1987, she broke the world records in the 400-meter , 800-meter , and 1,500-meter freestyle distances. At the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea, she won three individual gold medals, and she also earned the nickname "Miss Perpetual Motion.".  , In these Olympics, Evans set a new world record in the 400-meter freestyle event. This record stood for 18 years until France's Laure Manaudou broke it in May 2006. , Evans held the 1,500-meter freestyle record, set in March 1988, through June 2007, when it was broken by American Kate Ziegler with her time of 15:42.54. , Evans held the world record in the 800-meter freestyle, 8:16:22, that she set in August 1989, until it was broken by Rebecca Adlington of Britain in August 2008. Adlington set the new record with her time of 8:14.10 in winning the race at the 2008 Summer Olympics . Evans's 800-meter record was one of the longest-standing ones ever in swimming, and it went unbroken through four Olympic Games (1992-2004). Only the 100-meter freestyle swimming record set by the Dutch swimmer Willy den Ouden stood longer—from 1936 through 1956, during a period when international competition was interrupted by world war. , Following her outstanding performance of 1988, Evans continued to dominate the world's long-distance swimming competitions (400 meters and above). Evans became the first woman to win back-to-back Olympic and world championship titles in any one swimming event by winning the 1988 and 1992 Olympic gold medals and the 1991 and 1994 world championships in the 800-meter freestyle race. She would astonishingly go undefeated in all of the 400-, 800-, and 1500-meter freestyle events for over five years, only being broken with her shock defeat to Dagmar Hase in the 400-meter freestyle at the Barcelona Olympics, where she led for almost the entire race but was narrowly caught at the end. , Evans won the 400-meter and 800-meter freestyle events at the U.S. National Championships 12 times each, the largest number of national titles in one event by an American swimmer in the 100-year history of the competition. , Evans ended her swimming career, for all practical purposes, at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia. She did not win any medals, but she did add one more highlight to her life. She was given the honor of carrying the Olympic torch in the opening ceremony, and she handed the torch to the American boxing legend Muhammad Ali to light the cauldron. On July 27, 1996, she was in a building being interviewed by a German newsman when a bomb exploded nearby. The explosion very lightly shook the building and startled Evans. , In the swimming pool, Evans finished ninth in the preliminaries of the 400-meter freestyle. She did not qualify for the finals, as only the top eight finishers advance to the next level. In the final swim of her career, Evans finished in sixth place in the 800-meter freestyle. , At the Atlanta Games, American swimming officials criticized Ireland's Michelle Smith about her unexpected gold medals, suggesting that she might have been using performance enhancing drugs. When asked about the accusations, Evans said that when anyone like Smith showed such a significant improvement, "there's always that question." American sportswriters sympathetic to Smith took this comment to mean that Evans was accusing Smith of steroid use as well, and they attacked Evans as being a sore loser. Evans later insisted that she meant no such accusation and that her remarks were taken out of context. In 1998, Smith received a four-year suspension for tampering with a urine sample. , At the end of Evans' swimming career, she held seven world records, five Olympic medals (including four gold medals), and 45 American national titles — third only to Tracy Caulkins and Michael Phelps . , In June 2011, it was reported that Evans was in the process of a comeback and had been training for six months with the goal of competing at the 2012 U.S. Olympic Trials .  At the 2012 Olympic Trials, at the age of 40, she ended up finishing 80th out of 113 swimmers in the 400-meter freestyle  and 53rd out of 65 swimmers in the 800-meter freestyle.  When she was introduced for both races she was given a standing ovation by the capacity crowd at the pool in Omaha, Nebraska.  , Evans was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame as an "Honor Swimmer" in 2001.  ,  Yana Oleksandrivna Klochkova ( Ukrainian : Яна Олександрівна Клочкова ; born 7 August 1982 in Simferopol ) is a Ukrainian swimmer , who has won five Olympic medals in her career, with four of them being gold. She is Master of Sports [ citation needed ] , World Class and the only multi gold medal holder (more than two) [ citation needed ] in Ukraine. , , , Her gold medals came in the 200 meter individual medley and the 400 meter individual medley at the 2000 and 2004 Summer Olympics ; her silver medal came in the 800 meter freestyle at the 2000 Summer Olympics . She has also won ten titles at swimming's world championships, nineteen European championship titles. She currently holds the short-course world record in the 400 meter individual medley. Her 400 m individual medley world record was broken by American Katie Hoff at the 2007 World Championships in Melbourne. In 2003 she won four golds at the Summer Universiade in South Korea. She was also awarded the Hero of Ukraine medal. In 2004, she was named by Swimming World magazine as the World Female Swimmer of the Year . , Yana Klochkova's titles include:  Melissa Jeanette Franklin (born May 10, 1995) is an American competition swimmer and four-time Olympic gold medalist. She currently holds the world record in the 200-meter backstroke ( long course ) and American records in both the 100-meter and 200-meter backstroke (long course).   As a member of the U.S. national swim team, she also holds the world record in the 4×100-meter medley relay (short course and long course).  , In her Olympic debut at the 2012 Summer Olympics at age 17, Franklin won a total of five medals, four of which were gold. She swept the women's backstroke events, winning gold in both the 100-meter and 200-meter backstroke. Franklin's successes have earned her Swimming World ' s World Swimmer of the Year and the American Swimmer of the Year award in 2012 as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2011 and 2012. In total, she has won twenty-two medals in international competition: fourteen gold, five silver, and three bronze, spanning the Olympics , the World Championships , the short course World Championships , and the Pan Pacific Championships . , Missy Franklin is the subject of the feature documentary Touch the Wall , a film made about her journey to the London 2012 Olympics. The film was released in 2014. , Franklin holds dual American and Canadian citizenship, and chose to compete for the U.S. national swim team. , , , Franklin was born in Pasadena, California , the daughter of Dick and D. A. Franklin. She grew up in Centennial, Colorado and began swimming there at the age of five at the urging of her mother. She attended Regis Jesuit High School in Aurora, Colorado and graduated in 2013.  , Both of Franklin's parents are Canadian and Franklin holds American and Canadian dual citizenship .  Her father, Dick, was born in St. Catharines, Ontario . A former All-Canadian football player for Saint Mary's University in Halifax, Nova Scotia , he played briefly for the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League as an offensive lineman . After an injury ended his football career, he returned to Halifax to pursue an MBA degree at Dalhousie University , where he met his future wife, a medical student. While working for 7-Up in Ontario, Dick was transferred to the United States. Ultimately the family settled in Denver , Colorado, where Dick had a senior position with Coors Brewing Company.  Franklin's mother suggested that her daughter consider competing for Canada to ease the pressure of qualifying for the U.S. National Team due to the competitive depth of American swimmers. Franklin, however, chose to represent the United States, citing her patriotism for her homeland.  , Franklin is 6 ft 1 in (185 cm) tall and has women's size 13 feet: "We call them built-in flippers," says her father.  She has been coached by Todd Schmitz from the Colorado Stars club team since she was 7 years old.  Franklin says her favorite athlete is Natalie Coughlin .  , During her rise to stardom surrounding the 2012 Olympics, Franklin continued to refuse prize money and endorsements so that she could maintain her amateur status to compete in college.   In 2012, she accepted an athletic scholarship to attend the University of California, Berkeley , where she began swimming for coach Teri McKeever 's California Golden Bears women's swimming team during the 2013–14 academic year.   At Cal, Franklin is a four-time individual NCAA champion: winning the 200-yard freestyle in 2014 and 2015, and the 200-yard backstroke and individual medley in 2015. After the 2015 NCAA Swimming and Diving Championships, in which Franklin won three individual NCAA titles, Franklin turned professional. She intends to continue working towards a degree in psychology and a minor in education.  , Franklin is a Christian . Franklin has spoken about her faith in her life saying, " God is always there for me. I talk with Him before, during and after practice and competitions. I pray to Him for guidance. I thank Him for this talent He has given me, and promise to be a positive role model for young athletes in all sports."  , Franklin appeared in a March 2013 episode of Pretty Little Liars as herself. She is the subject of the 2014 documentary Touch the Wall along with Kara Lynn Joyce . The film is directed by Christo Brock and Grant Barbeito, and documents Franklin's and Joyce's journey to the 2012 London Olympics. The film was noted for its celebration of female physical and emotional strength.  , Franklin is very active with multiple charitable causes. She serves as an ambassador for Swim for Multiple Sclerosis, which raises money for MS research via fundraising events such as, Swim-a-Thons. She also auctioned off a private swim lesson with her long time club coach, Todd Schmitz of the Colorado Stars, to support One Drop USA, a clean water initiative founded by Guy Laliberte.  Along with Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper and Senator Michael Bennet, Franklin was asked to speak at the memorial service for slain 17-year old Colorado student Claire Davis, who was killed by a fellow student at Arapahoe High School .  , At the age of 13, Franklin competed at the 2008 U.S. Olympic Team Trials , but did not qualify to swim in any events at the 2008 Summer Olympics . Her best result was 37th place in the 100-meter freestyle.    , At the 2010 National Championships, Franklin competed in six individual events, and qualified to swim at the 2010 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships by finishing second in the 100- and 200-meter backstroke.   At the 2010 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships, Franklin finished fourth in the 100-meter backstroke and did not make the A final for the 50- and 200-meter backstroke.    Franklin earned the first international medals of her career at the 2010 FINA Short Course World Championships in Dubai. In the 200-meter backstroke, Franklin finished in second place behind French swimmer Alexianne Castel .  Franklin also earned a silver medal in the 4×100-meter medley relay for her contribution in the heats.  For her performance in 2010, she won the Breakout Performer of the Year Award at the seventh annual Golden Goggle Awards .  , In her first long course world championship meet at the 2011 World Aquatics Championships in Shanghai, Franklin won a total of five medals, three gold, one silver, and one bronze. In her first event, the 4×100-meter freestyle relay, Franklin won a silver medal with Natalie Coughlin , Jessica Hardy and Dana Vollmer in a time of 3:34.47. Swimming the second leg, Franklin had a split of 52.99, the second-best among all participants.  Franklin won her first individual medal, a bronze, in the 50-meter backstroke, finishing behind Russian Anastasia Zuyeva and Japanese Aya Terakawa .  Shortly after the 50-meter backstroke final, Franklin competed in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay with Dagny Knutson , Katie Hoff and Allison Schmitt and won gold ahead of Australia and China in a time of 7:46.14. Franklin's lead-off time of 1:55.06 was faster than the winning time of Italian Federica Pellegrini in the individual 200-meter freestyle final (1:55.58).  After setting the national record in the semi-finals of the 200-meter backstroke (2:05.90), Franklin dominated the field in the final with a time of 2:05.10, breaking her own national record and winning gold. This was Franklin's first individual world title, and her time in the final was the third-fastest effort of all time.  Shortly after the 200-meter backstroke final, Franklin competed in the 4×100-meter medley relay with Natalie Coughlin , Rebecca Soni , and Dana Vollmer and won gold with a time of 3:52.36, over three seconds ahead of second-place finisher China. Swimming the freestyle leg, Franklin had a split of 52.79, the fastest in the field. The final time of 3:52.36 for the medley relay was the second-fastest effort of all time, just behind the Chinese-owned world record of 3:52.19.  For her performance at these championships, she won the Female Athlete of the Year, Female Race of the Year (200-meter backstroke), and the Relay Performance of the Year (4×100-meter medley relay) Award at the eighth annual Golden Goggle Awards .  She was also named the best female swimmer for 2011 by FINA Aquatics World Magazine .  , Three days after the 2011 World Aquatics Championships ended in Shanghai on July 30, Franklin traveled to Palo Alto, California to compete at the 2011 National Championships, which began on August 2. At these championships, Franklin competed in four individual events, and the 4×100 and 4×200-meter freestyle relay. Franklin won the first national titles of her career in the 100-meter backstroke and freestyle.   She also placed fourth in the 200-meter individual medley and twelfth in the 50-meter freestyle.   , Towards the end of 2011 in October, at the 2011 FINA Swimming World Cup , Franklin set the first world record of her career in the 200-meter backstroke (short course), bettering the previous record of 2:00.18 held by Shiho Sakai with a time of 2:00.03. In breaking the record, Franklin became the first female to break an individual world record since the high-tech bodysuits were banned in January 2010.  Franklin's second world record came at the 2011 Duel in the Pool in December. In the 4×100-meter medley relay, Franklin combined with Natalie Coughlin , Rebecca Soni , and Dana Vollmer to break the previous American-owned world record in a time of 3:45.56, bettering the previous record of 3:47.97. Swimming the freestyle leg, Franklin had a split of 51.32.  , At the 2012 United States Olympic Trials , Franklin qualified to swim in four individual events at the 2012 Summer Olympics . In her first event, the 100-meter backstroke, Franklin won the final with a time of 58.85, breaking Natalie Coughlin 's American record of 58.94 seconds.  In her second event, the 200-meter freestyle, Franklin placed second behind Allison Schmitt by over two seconds with a time of 1:56.79.  In her third individual event, Franklin finished second in the 100-meter freestyle behind Jessica Hardy with a time of 54.15.  Her second-place finish came less than half an hour after swimming in the 200-meter backstroke semi-finals, where she finished first overall with a time of 2:07.91. In the 200-meter backstroke final, her fourth individual event, Franklin finished first with a time of 2:06.12.  , On the first day of the swimming competition at the 2012 Olympics in London, Franklin won a bronze medal in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay with Jessica Hardy , Lia Neal , and Allison Schmitt , with the U.S. team finishing behind Australia and the Netherlands.  Swimming the lead-off leg, Franklin had a personal best of 53.52 seconds and the team finished with a total time of 3:34.24, an American record . Franklin's first leg in the relay was also the fastest lead-off of the field. In her first individual event on the third day of the swimming competition, the 100-meter backstroke , Franklin won the gold medal with a time of 58.33 seconds, beating her own national record.  Her win in the backstroke came less than fifteen minutes after completing the 200-meter freestyle semifinals, where she qualified for the final. The following day, Franklin competed in the 200-meter freestyle and placed fourth in the final with a time of 1:55.82, one one-hundredth of a second behind third-place finisher Bronte Barratt .  A day after the 200-meter freestyle, Franklin won her third medal of the meet, a gold, in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay with Dana Vollmer , Shannon Vreeland and Allison Schmitt . Swimming the lead-off leg, Franklin posted a time of 1:55.96 and the U.S. team finished with a time of 7:42.92, a new American record.  A day after completing the relay, Franklin competed in her third individual event, 100-meter freestyle . In the final, Franklin placed fifth with a time of 53.64 seconds.  Franklin was able to bounce back from that performance, and in her fourth and last individual event held the following day, the 200-meter backstroke , Franklin won her second individual gold of the Olympics with a world record time of 2:04.06, bettering Kirsty Coventry 's record of 2:04.81. In winning the 200-meter backstroke, Franklin also became the first American female to win the event at the Olympics since Melissa Belote did in 1972, forty years earlier.  In her final event, the 4×100-meter medley relay , Franklin won gold with Rebecca Soni , Dana Vollmer and Allison Schmitt . Swimming the backstroke leg, Franklin recorded a time of 58.50 seconds, and the U.S. team went on to set the world record with a time of 3:52.05, besting the Chinese-owned record of 3:52.19 set in 2009.  , At the end of the year, Franklin was named the World Swimmer of the Year and American Swimmer of the Year by Swimming World Magazine . She was also named the best female swimmer for 2012 by FINA Aquatics World Magazine . , At the 2013 US National Championships, Franklin qualified to swim in five individual events at the 2013 World Aquatics Championships . At the National Championships, she finished first in the 100- and 200-meter freestyle and backstroke, and second in the 50-meter backstroke. , At the 2013 World Aquatics Championships in Barcelona, Franklin swam seven total events – four individual and three relays, though she later withdrew from the 50-meter backstroke after the heats. At the meet, Franklin won six gold medals, setting a new record for the most golds won by a female swimmer at a single edition of the World Championships. Despite being the first woman in history to win six gold medals at a single World Championships, she lost out the award of Swimmer of the Meet to teammate Katie Ledecky for her two world record-breaking performances and four gold medals. , On the first day of the pool competition and her first event the 4x100-meter freestyle relay , Franklin lead-off the relay with a time of 53.51. She was over a second behind Australia's lead-off Cate Campbell , but teammates Natalie Coughlin and Shannon Vreeland made up some ground and anchor Megan Romano overtook the Australian team in the last 20 meters to give the Americans the gold medal. The final time of 3:32.31 was an American record, breaking the previous record of 3:34.24. In her first individual event held on the third day of the pool competition, the 100-meter backstroke , Franklin won gold in a time of 58.42, six-tenths of a second ahead of Emily Seebohm of Australia. On the fourth day, Franklin decided to scratch the 50-meter backstroke since it was right before the 200-meter freestyle. In the 200-meter freestyle , Franklin won her third gold in a personal best time of 1:54.81, touching 0.33 seconds ahead of second-place finisher Federica Pellegrini . On the fifth day, Franklin won gold in the 4x200-meter freestyle relay along with teammates Katie Ledecky , Shannon Vreeland , and Karlee Bispo . Swimming the anchor leg and diving in with a deficit of over a second, Franklin was able to track down Australian Alicia Coutts , recording a split of 1:54.27 and the team finishing with a time of 7:45.14. On the sixth day, Franklin competed in the 100-meter freestyle and placed fourth in the final with a time of 53.47, just missing the medal podium. A day after her 100-meter freestyle swim, Franklin successfully defended her title in the 200-meter backstroke , winning with a time of 2:04.76 and setting a new championship record. In her last event, the 4×100-meter medley relay , Franklin combined with Jessica Hardy , Dana Vollmer , and Megan Romano to win gold in a time of 3:53.23. Swimming the backstroke leg, Franklin recorded a time of 58.39. , At the 2014 U.S. National Championships, Franklin won the 100-meter backstroke with the third fastest American time ever, leading a sweep of the event by Cal Berkeley swimmers.  She also won the 200-meter backstroke and the 100-meter freestyle, and finished second in the 200-meter freestyle behind Katie Ledecky .    , Despite being hampered by a back injury, Franklin swam in four individual events and three team relays at the 2014 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships . In total, she won one gold, two silvers, and one bronze medal. , Franklin won her only individual medal in the 100-meter backstroke by finishing third with a time of 1:00.30. In the 100-meter freestyle and the 200-meter backstroke, she placed fourth. In the 200-meter freestyle, Franklin failed to qualify for the A final, but won the B final with the second-fastest time among all finalists, securing her place on the U.S. team for the 2015 World Championships in this event. , Franklin teamed with Shannon Vreeland , Leah Smith , and Katie Ledecky to win the 4x200-meter freestyle relay. Swimming with Simone Manuel , Abbey Weitzeil , and Vreeland, Franklin placed second in the 4x100-meter freestyle relay, and with teammates Jessica Hardy , Kendyl Stewart, and Manuel, she finished second in the 4x100-meter medley relay. ,  Leisel Marie Jones , OAM (born 30 August 1985) is an Australian former competition swimmer and Olympic gold medallist. A participant in the 2000 Summer Olympics – at just 15 years old – and 2004 Summer Olympics , she was part of gold medal winning Australian team in the women's 4 × 100 metre medley relay at the Athens Games in 2004 and a gold medalist for 100 meter breaststroke in the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. , On 17 March 2012, Jones earned selection to compete at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, and became the first Australian swimmer to compete at four Olympic games. There, she won her ninth Olympic medal, a silver medal in the 4 × 100 m medley relay . , Jones is noted for employing a classic breaststroke technique, typified by a slow but deeper stroke cycle and also by her slow starts.  Along with South African champion Penny Heyns , she is regarded as one of the greatest breaststroke swimmers ever. [ citation needed ] , , , While at Southern Cross Catholic College, Jones used to train at the Redcliffe club in Scarborough, Queensland , and was coached by Ken Wood .  Her training partners included fellow Australian team members, Geoff Huegill and Jessicah Schipper .  After her disappointing campaign in Athens, Jones moved to train at the Fortitude Valley Pool in Brisbane, Australia, alongside Libby Lenton , under Swiss-born coach Stephan Widmar at the Commercial Swimming Club .   Following the move, Jones began to speak openly about the depression and self-esteem issues that had plagued her following her being thrust into the spotlight at such a young age.  This and the successes that followed endeared her to an Australian public that had been critical of her attitude following her failure to capture individual gold in Athens. Some, including swimming legend Dawn Fraser , believed Jones had acted immaturely and ungratefully, particularly in her indifferent displays of emotion during post-race interviews and medal ceremonies.  , In 2009, Jones became the new face of the World Animal Protection Australia & New Zealand anti-whaling campaign.  , Jones confirmed her retirement from swimming in November 2012. She is planning to begin a university degree in psychology in 2013.  , Jones was selected for the Australian team at just 14 years of age,  qualifying in the 100 m breaststroke by winning the event at the Australian Championships in May 2000 in Sydney, ending the international career of former world champion Samantha Riley . , She swam a personal best in the final at the Sydney Olympics to claim an unexpected silver medal behind American Megan Quann .  She also combined with Dyana Calub , Petria Thomas and Susie O'Neill in the 4 × 100 m medley relay to win silver, again behind the Americans. Jones left school aged 15 to concentrate on swimming.  , At the 2001 World Aquatics Championships in Fukuoka , Japan, and Jones was now one of the established swimmers and expected to win medals, but finished second to China's Luo Xuejuan . It also marked her international debut in the 200 m breaststroke, where she came fourth place (2:25.46s). She also collected a gold in the medley relay alongside Calub, Thomas and Sarah Ryan , the first time that the United States had been beaten at world or Olympic level in this event, excluding the systemically doped East German and Chinese teams. , In 2002, she claimed her first titles on the international arena, claiming the breaststroke double at the 2002 Commonwealth Games in Manchester .  Australia also won the medley relay. , In 2003, Jones set an Australian record in the 200 m individual medley earlier in the year, in an experimental event. Later at the 2003 World Aquatics Championships in Barcelona , Spain, she started confidently, setting a world record in the semifinals of the 100 m breaststroke (1:06.37s). However, she succumbed to nerves in the final and came third, with Luo again winning the event. She also achieved a silver in the 200 m breaststroke in Barcelona, behind Amanda Beard in (2:24.33s). She collected a bronze in the medley relay. , In the month leading up to the Athens Olympics , Jones set a world record (2:22.96) in the 200 m breaststroke in a meet in Brisbane, Australia. This led to high expectations of an even better performance in Athens, as Jones had not been rested prior to swimming the world record. However, it was reclaimed by Beard at the US Olympic trials only a few days later. , In Athens, Jones was again the quickest qualifier of the 100 m breaststroke , after setting an Olympic record (1:06.78) in the semifinals, which was almost two seconds clear of the then second fastest swimmer in the event's history, Amanda Beard. However, in the final race she finished in the bronze position. In the 200 m event , she attempted to take an attacking approach, but faded in the last 50 m and was pipped to the wall by Amanda Beard, winning silver. Australia went on the win the medley relay, giving Jones her first Olympic gold. , Jones' world record in the 100 m breaststroke was broken at the 2005 World Aquatics Championships in Montreal , Canada by Jessica Hardy of the United States in 1:06.20, again in the semifinal. However, this time the expectations turned to Hardy and Jones turned the tables and beat her to the wall, breaking through for her first win at world or Olympic level.  She also broke the world record for the 200 m breaststroke (2:21.72s), on 29 July 2005. In the process she won the gold medal, leaving her rivals more than six metres behind. For her efforts she was named by Swimming World magazine as the Female World Swimmer of the Year in 2005. , The changes which occurred in 2005 continued to pay off at the Australian Commonwealth Games Swimming Trials in early 2006 where Jones broke her personal best time in the 50 m (30.85) and took 1.18 seconds off her previous world record in the 200 m breaststroke (2.20:54). On Day 5 of the Australian Nationals Jones swam a world record in the 100 m breaststroke final. Jones won the Australian championship in a time of 1:05.71 which lowered the previous mark by 0.49 s. , Jones completed a clean sweep of the breaststroke events (50 m, 100 m and 200 m) at the 2006 Commonwealth Games , this is the only time this has been achieved in the breaststroke events in the games' history. In the butterfly events (50m, 100 m and 200m) at the 2002 Manchester Games, Petria Thomas was the first swimmer in Commonwealth Games history to complete a clean sweep. The 50 m events were introduced at the Manchester Games. In the 50 m breaststroke, an event she had only recently begun competing in, she defeated the reigning world champion and world record holder Jade Edmistone .  She later won another gold in the 200 m breaststroke and completed the sweep with the gold medal in the 100 m in a world record time of 1:05.09 – an effort that saw her own world record reduced 0.62 s and was declared "Beamonesque" by aquatics journalist Craig Lord, a reference to Bob Beamon 's legendary long jump at the Mexico City Olympics. A fourth gold medal in world record time in the 4 × 100 m medley relay with Sophie Edington , Jessicah Schipper and Libby Lenton rounded off her Commonwealth Games. , In 2007, she competed in the World Championships and won the 100 m  and 200 m breaststroke and the 4 × 100 m medley relay, setting a world record in the relay. She also won silver in the 50 m breaststroke. She then left Brisbane and Widmer to move to Melbourne to train under Rohan Taylor , so that she could live with her fiancé Marty Pask , an Australian rules footballer with the Western Bulldogs who was delisted at the end of 2007. Her dissolution of a successful partnership raised eyebrows and many questioned whether putting her personal life ahead of a proven competitive formula would backfire in the pool. , In early 2008, she won the breaststroke double at the 2008 Australian Swimming Championships to qualify for the Beijing Olympics. , Although missing the World Short Course Championships in Manchester due to the preparation for the 2008 Beijing Olympics she broke her own world record over 100 m breaststroke (SC) in 1:03,72 at the Telstra Grand Prix in Canberra. , Jones won gold at the 2008 Beijing Olympics in 100 m breaststroke, touching the line a full body length ahead of her rival. Her time of 1:05.17 was 1.66 s faster than the American silver medalist Rebecca Soni . While she was the favorite to win in the 200 m breaststroke, she was beaten by Soni, who won gold in world record time. Jones took the silver. She also won a gold medal in the 4 × 100 m medley relay, with the Australian team breaking the previous world record by three seconds. [ citation needed ] , Jones was awarded the Telstra Swimmer Of The Year award as part of the year's international all-star team, in Sydney in October 2008.  , At the World Cup meeting at Berlin, Germany , Jones set world records in the 100 and 200 m breaststroke (short course). Jones had a low key year and opted out of the 2009 World Championships . , Jones confirmed that she was aiming for the 2012 Olympics in London and competed at the Pan Pacific Championships and the Commonwealth Games in 2010. Jones confirmed her place on these teams by winning the 50, 100 and 200 m breaststroke at the 2010 Telstra Australian Swimming Championships. , At the Pan Pacific Swimming Championships in Irvine, California , in 2010, Jones collected 3 silver and a bronze. She competed in the 50 m breaststroke (bronze) 100 m breaststroke (silver), 200 m breaststroke (silver), and the 4 × 100 m medley relay (silver) events. In all four of events, she was behind the Americans; in the 50 m she was behind Jessica Hardy and fellow Australian Leiston Pickett and in the 100 and 200 m she was behind Rebecca Soni . , After earning selection to compete at the 2012 London Olympics, Jones became the first Australian swimmer to compete at four Olympic games.  Together with Emily Seebohm , Alicia Coutts and Melanie Schlanger , she won a silver medal for Australia in the 4 × 100 m medley relay . , Jones confirmed her retirement from swimming on 16 November 2012.  , In 2015, Jones appeared in the Australian version of I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here! (Australian TV series) . She was however voted off the show in the first week by a public vote.  Natalie Coughlin Hall (born August 23, 1982), née Natalie Anne Coughlin , is an American competition swimmer and twelve-time Olympic medalist. While attending the University of California, Berkeley , she became the first woman ever to swim the 100-meter backstroke (long course) in less than one minute—ten days before her 20th birthday in 2002. At the 2008 Summer Olympics , she became the first U.S. female athlete in modern Olympic history to win six medals in one Olympiad, and the first woman ever to win a 100-meter backstroke gold in two consecutive Olympics.  , Coughlin's success has earned her the World Swimmer of the Year Award once and American Swimmer of the Year Award three times. She has won a total of forty-nine medals in major international competition, twenty-two gold, seventeen silver, and ten bronze spanning the Olympics, the World , and the Pan Pacific Championships. At the 2012 Summer Olympics , she earned a bronze medal in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay. Her total of twelve Olympic medals tie her with Jenny Thompson and Dara Torres for the most all-time by an American woman. , , , Coughlin was born in Vallejo, California , and is of Irish and one quarter Filipino ancestry.  Coughlin first began swimming at the local YMCA when she was only 10 months old. She attended St. Catherine of Siena School in Vallejo, for kindergarten through eighth grade, and then Carondelet High School in Concord, California . While in high school in 1998, she became the first swimmer to qualify for the Summer National in all fourteen events.  Coughlin broke two individual national high school records in the 200-yard individual medley (1:58.45) and the 100-yard backstroke (52.86). She graduated from Carondelet High School in 2000. , Coughlin attended the University of California, Berkeley , where she swam for coach Teri McKeever 's California Golden Bears swimming and diving team in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) competition from 2001 to 2003. During her three years as a Cal Bears swimmer, she won eleven individual NCAA national championships, and a twelfth NCAA relay title. She was recognized as the NCAA Swimmer of the Year for three consecutive years, and she was a two-time recipient of the Honda Sports Award for Swimming and Diving, recognizing her as the outstanding college female swimmer in 2001–02 and 2002–03.  Sports Illustrated magazine named her its college Female Athlete of the Year. Coughlin was inducted into the Cal Athletic Hall of Fame in 2014.  , At the ninth World Aquatics Championships in Fukuoka, Japan, Coughlin won three medals—one gold, one silver, and one bronze. She won her gold medal in the 100-meter backstroke with Diana Mocanu (Romania) taking the silver and Antje Buschschulte (Germany) taking the bronze. Coughlin won her silver medal in the women's 4×100-meter medley relay , teaming up with Megan Quann , Mary Descenza , and Erin Phenix ; the Australians won the gold (Calub, Jones, Thomas, Ryan). Coughlin won her bronze medal in the 50-meter backstroke ; fellow American Haley Cope won gold and Antje Buschschulte won the silver. , At the ninth Pan Pacific Championships in Yokohama, Japan, Coughlin won six medals—four golds and two silvers. Coughlin won one of her gold medals in the women's 100-meter backstroke with a time of 59.72, and another in the women's 100-meter butterfly with a time of 57.88. Coughlin won her third gold medal in the women's 100-meter freestyle with a time of 53.99. She won her fourth gold medal in the women's 4×200-meter freestyle relay with Elizabeth Hill, Diana Munz, and Lindsay Benko. She won her silver medals as a member of the second-place U.S. relay teams in the 4×100-meter freestyle and 4×100-meter medley events. , At the tenth World Aquatics Championships in Barcelona, Spain, Coughlin won two medals, including a gold and a silver. Coughlin won her gold medal in the women's 4×100-meter freestyle relay and a silver medal in the 4×100-medley relay . , Coughlin won the gold medal at the 2004 Olympics in the women's 100-meter backstroke event and won a silver medal as a member of the U.S. women's 4×100-meter freestyle relay team with Kara Lynn Joyce , Amanda Weir and Jenny Thompson . She also broke a world record and won gold as a member of the 4×200-meter freestyle relay , a silver in the 4×100-meter medley relay , and a bronze in the 100-meter freestyle .  , At the 2007 World Aquatics Championships , Coughlin won five medals: two gold, two silver, and one bronze. In her first event, the 4×100-meter freestyle relay , Coughlin won a silver medal along with Lacey Nymeyer , Amanda Weir , and Kara Lynn Joyce .  The following day, in the 100-meter butterfly , she placed third in the final with a time of 57.34, an American record.  In the 100-meter backstroke final, held the following day, she broke her own world record set in 2002 with a time of 59.44.   After a day of rest, Coughlin was back in the pool to swim the lead-off leg in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay . Swimming in lane eight, Coughlin set the American record with a time of 1:56.43, to break Katie Hoff 's one-day-old record of 1:57.09.  Dana Vollmer , Lacey Nymeyer, and Katie Hoff each extended the lead and the final time of 7:50.09 was a world record.  The following day, Coughlin finished in 4th place in the 100-meter freestyle despite setting the championship record in the semifinals.  In her last event, the 4×100-meter medley relay , Coughlin won a silver medal along with Tara Kirk , Rachel Komisarz , and Lacey Nymeyer.  , In Coughlin's second Olympics appearance, at Beijing in 2008, she became the first American female athlete to win six medals in one Olympics.  She was elected joint captain of the US women's swimming team together with five-time Olympian Dara Torres and four-time Olympian Amanda Beard .  Coughlin won the gold medal in the 100-meter backstroke at those Games, becoming the first woman to retain the gold medal position in that event. She had lost her world record to Kirsty Coventry , the eventual winner of the silver medal, in the semi-final. When receiving her medal, her lip was still bleeding where she had bitten it during the race to distract her from the pain in her legs.  She won a silver medal in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay , swimming with Lacey Nymeyer , Kara Lynn Joyce and Dara Torres, and also won bronze medals in the 200-meter individual medley , 4×200-meter freestyle relay , and the 100-meter freestyle . She won a silver medal in her final race in the 4×100-meter medley relay swimming with Rebecca Soni , Christine Magnuson , and Dara Torres. , After taking an 18-month break from swimming, Coughlin returned to the pool at the 2010 Conoco Phillips Summer Nationals for swimming. Coughlin qualified for Pan Pacs in the 100-meter backstroke with a time of 1:00.14.  , Before racing at the Pan Pacs , Coughlin, along with Amanda Beard , was elected co-captain of Team USA once again. In the finals of the 100-meter freestyle , Natalie Coughlin won the gold, making a new Pan Pacific record (53.67). In the finals of the 100-meter backstroke , Coughlin finished third (59.70) behind Australia's Emily Seebohm and Japan's Aya Terakawa . Coughlin won two more golds when starting off both the 4×100-meter freestyle relay and the 4×100-meter medley relay .  , At the 14th World Aquatics Championships in Shanghai, China, Coughlin won three medals–one gold, one silver, and one bronze. She won a gold medal in the women's 4×100-meter medley relay with fellow Americans Rebecca Soni, Dana Vollmer, and Missy Franklin with a time of 3:52.36. She won a silver medal in the women's 4×100-meter freestyle relay with fellow Americans Missy Franklin, Jessica Hardy, and Dana Vollmer with a time of 3:34.47 with the Netherlands touching first with a time of 3:33.96. She won a bronze medal in the women's 100-meter backstroke , her only individual medal at these championships, with a 59.15. Coughlin led for the entire race, when in the last couple meters, Zhao Jing and Anastasia Zueva edged her out. , At the 2012 United States Olympic Trials in Omaha, Nebraska, the U.S. qualifying event for the Olympics, the 29-year-old veteran Coughlin found herself in competition with a younger generation of American swimmers. In order to qualify for the U.S team in a given individual event, swimmers are required to finish among the top two. In the finals of the 100-meter backstroke, she finished third behind teenagers Missy Franklin and Rachel Bootsma , and finished seventh in the 100-meter butterfly. Coughlin also competed in the 100-meter freestyle, and finished sixth, qualifying to compete as a member of the U.S. women's team in the preliminaries of the 4×100-meter freestyle relay. , At the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, she swam in the qualifying round of the 4×100-meter freestyle relay , and did not swim in the 4×100-meter final, but earned a bronze medal when the U.S. team placed third in the final. It was her twelfth Olympic medal, tying the record previously set by American swimmers Jenny Thompson and Dara Torres for the most career Olympic medals won by a female U.S. athlete.  , At the 2013 Phillips 66 National Championships, which also served as the selection meet for the World Championships, Coughlin decided to only take up the sprint freestyles and swam the 50 and 100-meter freestyle events. Coughlin qualified for the 50-meter freestyle and the 4×100-meter freestyle relay. Coughlin finished first in the 50-meter freestyle with a 24.97, just ahead of 16-year-old Simone Manuel , who swam a 25.01.  With the first-place finish in the 50-meter freestyle, Coughlin ensured herself a relay spot since she had finished 5th in the 100-meter freestyle, with a time of 54.04.  , She won a gold medal at the event on the first night of swimming competition in the 4×100 freestyle relay . She went second for team USA and swam her leg in 52.98 seconds; she was one of only 6 women in the field of 32 to break the 53 second barrier. , Coughlin worked as an in-studio host for MSNBC during the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy. , In April 2009, Coughlin married Ethan Hall, the Crow Canyon Sharks swim coach.  , One of Coughlin's favorite hobbies is cooking. During the 2008 Summer Olympics , she was invited to prepare a Chinese-themed dish on Today . She has appeared as a judge on Iron Chef America .  She appeared on Food Network 's Chopped Sport Stars episode that first aired on September 3, 2013. , Coughlin competed in season 9 of Dancing with the Stars with season 1 professional champion, Alec Mazo .   She was eliminated on the fifth episode. , Coughlin appeared in the 2012 Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue .  She has also written a book called Golden Girl . , ,  Petria Ann Thomas , OAM (born 25 August 1975) is an Australian swimmer and Olympic gold medallist and a winner of 15 national titles. She was born in Lismore, New South Wales , and grew up in the nearby town of Mullumbimby . , , , In 1993, at the age of 17, Thomas won a bronze medal in the 200-metre butterfly at the World Short Course Championships. She followed this with two gold medals, in the 100-metre butterfly and 4x100-metre freestyle in the 1994 Commonwealth Games in Victoria, Canada. However, she then struggled for two years, until making a comeback at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta in 1996. She won a silver medal, finishing second to fellow Australian Susie O'Neill . , Despite being plagued by a shoulder injury, Thomas repeated her 1994 Commonwealth Games effort at the 1998 Games in Kuala Lumpur . She also won a bronze in the 100-metre butterfly and a silver in the 200-metre at the World Championships in Perth, the same year. She had similar success at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney in 2000, winning three medals - bronze in the 200-metre butterfly, silver in the 4x100-metre medley, and silver in the 4x200-metre freestyle. , Thomas had always struggled to surpass O'Neill, despite being talented in her own right. However, after the 2000 games, O'Neill retired, and Thomas, despite battling recurring injuries, decided to continue. The decision paid off when she won three gold medals at the 2001 World Championships in Fukuoka, Japan. She won both the 100-metre and 200-metre butterfly, and then was part of the winning 4x100-metre medley relay team. She was also part of the 4x200-metre freestyle relay team, which completed the race first, but they were disqualified when Thomas jumped in the pool to celebrate before the other competitors had completed the race. , At the 2002 Commonwealth Games , Thomas won five gold, one silver and one bronze medals. While being one of the pinnacles of her career, her victory also made her the first female swimmer ever to win the same event at three consecutive Commonwealth Games - the 100-metre butterfly. She followed this with three gold and two silver medals at the 2002 Pan Pacific Championships in Yokohama, Japan. At the short-course championships in Moscow, Russia, Thomas managed to win another gold medal in her pet event, the 200-metre butterfly. However, injuries forced her out of competition soon afterwards, and she had to spend much of 2003 recovering from yet another shoulder reconstruction. , In 2004, Thomas made another comeback at the Olympic selection trials in Sydney while training with the Ginninderra Swimming Club . She broke the Commonwealth records in the 50-metre and 100-metre butterfly, set new personal best times in the 100-metre freestyle, 200-metre freestyle and narrowly missed the world record in the 200-metre butterfly. , After having missed out on first place in 1996 and 2000, Thomas finally managed to achieve gold at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens. She won the individual 100-metre butterfly, and was a part of two world record setting teams in the 4x100-metre freestyle and 4x100-metre medley relays. She was subsequently chosen to carry the Australian flag at the closing ceremony. Thomas announced her retirement from competitive swimming at the conclusion of the games. , In mid-2005, Thomas released an autobiography, Swimming Against The Tide , in which she describes her career, including her experiences with depression and injuries. , Thomas was inducted into the Australian Institute of Sport Swimming Hall of Fame in 1996, and was crowned the AIS Athlete of the Year in 2001 (with gymnast Philippe Rizzo ) and 2002 and in 2006 inducted in the AIS 'Best of the Best'. She was inducted into the Sport Australia Hall of Fame in 2007.  , She currently resides in Amaroo , Canberra , with her husband, Julian Jones , the head strength and conditioning coach at the AIS. They have two children.  Eldrick Tont " Tiger " Woods  (born December 30, 1975)   is an American professional golfer who is among the most successful golfers of all time. He has been one of the highest-paid athletes in the world for several years. , Following an outstanding amateur and two-year college golf career, Woods turned professional at age 20 in late summer 1996. By April 1997 he had already won his first major, the 1997 Masters in a record-breaking performance, winning the tournament by 12 strokes and pocketing $486,000. He first reached the number one position in the world rankings in June 1997. Through the 2000s, Woods was the dominant force in golf, spending 264 weeks from August 1999 to September 2004 and 281 weeks from June 2005 to October 2010 as world number one. , From December 2009 to early April 2010, Woods took leave from professional golf to focus on his marriage after he admitted infidelity , but he and his wife Elin Nordegren eventually divorced. His many extramarital indiscretions were revealed by several different women, through many worldwide media sources.  This was followed by a loss of golf form, and his ranking gradually fell to a low of No. 58 in November 2011.   He ended a career-high winless streak of 107 weeks when he captured the Chevron World Challenge in December 2011.  After winning the Arnold Palmer Invitational on March 25, 2013, he ascended to the No.1 ranking once again, holding the top spot until May 2014. Woods had back disc surgery in April 2014, and has struggled since to regain his dominant form. By March 29, 2015, Woods had fallen to #104, outside of the top 100 for the first time since the week prior to his first Tour title win in 1996.  , Woods has broken numerous golf records. He has been world number one for the most consecutive weeks and for the greatest total number of weeks of any golfer. He has been awarded PGA Player of the Year a record eleven times,  the Byron Nelson Award for lowest adjusted scoring average a record eight times, and has the record of leading the money list in ten different seasons. He has won 14 professional major golf championships , the second highest of any player ( Jack Nicklaus leads with 18), and 79 PGA Tour events, second all time behind Sam Snead , who had 82 wins.  He has more career major wins and career PGA Tour wins than any other active golfer. He is the youngest player to achieve the career Grand Slam , and the youngest and fastest to win 50 tournaments on tour. Additionally, Woods is only the second golfer, after Jack Nicklaus, to have achieved a career Grand Slam three times. Woods has won 18 World Golf Championships , and won at least one of those events in each of the first 11 years after they began in 1999. Woods and Rory McIlroy are the only golfers to win both The Silver Medal and The Gold Medal at The Open Championship. , Woods was born in Cypress, California , to Earl (1932–2006) and Kultida (Tida) Woods (born 1944). He is the only child of their marriage; however, he does have two half-brothers, Earl Jr. (born 1955) and Kevin (born 1957), and a half-sister, Royce (born 1958) from the 18-year marriage of Earl Woods and his first wife, Barbara Woods Gray.  Earl, a retired lieutenant colonel and Vietnam War veteran, was of mostly African American , as well as Caucasian, and possible Native American and Chinese, ancestry.  Kultida (née Punsawad), originally from Thailand (where Earl had met her on a tour of duty in 1968), is of mixed Thai , Chinese , and Dutch ancestry.  He refers to his ethnic make-up as "Cablinasian" (a syllabic abbreviation he coined from Ca ucasian , Bl ack , American In dian , and Asian ).  , Woods' first name, Eldrick, was coined by his mother because it began with "E" (for Earl) and ended with "K" (for Kultida). His middle name Tont is a traditional Thai name. He was nicknamed Tiger in honor of his father's friend Col. Vuong Dang Phong, who had also been known as Tiger.  , Woods has a niece, Cheyenne Woods , who played for Wake Forest University 's golf team and turned professional in 2012, making her pro debut in the LPGA Championship .  , Woods grew up in Orange County , California. He was a child prodigy, introduced to golf before the age of two, by his athletic father Earl, a single-figure handicap amateur golfer who had been one of the earliest African-American college baseball players at Kansas State University .  In 1978, Tiger putted against comedian Bob Hope in a television appearance on The Mike Douglas Show . At age three, he shot a 48 over nine holes over the Cypress Navy course, and at age five, he appeared in Golf Digest and on ABC 's That's Incredible .  Before turning seven, Tiger won the Under Age 10 section of the Drive, Pitch, and Putt competition, held at the Navy Golf Course in Cypress, California.  In 1984 at the age of eight, he won the 9–10 boys' event, the youngest age group available, at the Junior World Golf Championships .  He first broke 80 at age eight.  He went on to win the Junior World Championships six times, including four consecutive wins from 1988 to 1991.      , Woods' father Earl wrote that Tiger first defeated him at the age of 11 years, with Earl trying his best. Earl lost to Tiger every time from then on.   Woods first broke 70 on a regulation golf course at age 12.  , Woods' first major national junior tournament was the 1989 Big I, when he was 13 years old. Woods was paired with pro John Daly , then relatively unknown, in the final round; the event's format placed a professional with each group of juniors who had qualified. Daly birdied three of the last four holes to beat Woods by only one stroke.  As a young teenager, Woods first met Jack Nicklaus in Los Angeles at the Bel-Air Country Club , when Nicklaus was performing a clinic for the club's members. Woods was part of the show, and impressed Nicklaus and the crowd with his skills and potential.  Earl Woods had researched in detail the career accomplishments of Nicklaus, and had set his young son the goals of breaking those records.  , While attending Western High School in Anaheim at the age of 15, Woods became the youngest ever U.S. Junior Amateur champion (a record which stood until it was broken by Jim Liu in 2010).  He was named 1991's Southern California Amateur Player of the Year (for the second consecutive year) and Golf Digest Junior Amateur Player of the Year. In 1992, he defended his title at the U.S. Junior Amateur Championship, becoming the first multiple winner; competed in his first PGA Tour event, the Nissan Los Angeles Open (he missed the 36-hole cut); and was named Golf Digest Amateur Player of the Year, Golf World Player of the Year, and Golfweek National Amateur of the Year.   , The following year, Woods won his third consecutive U.S. Junior Amateur Championship; he remains the event's only three-time winner.  In 1994, at the TPC at Sawgrass in Florida, he became the youngest-ever winner of the U.S. Amateur Championship , a record he held until 2008 when it was broken by Danny Lee .  He was a member of the American team at the 1994 Eisenhower Trophy World Amateur Golf Team Championships (winning), and the 1995 Walker Cup (losing).   , Woods graduated from Western High School in 1994 at age 18, and was voted "Most Likely to Succeed" among the graduating class. He had starred for the high school's golf team under coach Don Crosby.  , Woods overcame difficulties with stuttering as a boy.    This was not known until he wrote a letter to a boy who contemplated suicide. Wood wrote, "I know what it's like to be different and to sometimes not fit in. I also stuttered as a child and I would talk to my dog and he would sit there and listen until he fell asleep. I also took a class for two years to help me, and I finally learned to stop."  , Woods was recruited very heavily by college golf powers, and chose Stanford University , the 1994 NCAA Division I champions. He enrolled at Stanford in the fall of 1994 under a golf scholarship, winning his first collegiate event, the 40th Annual William H. Tucker Invitational, that September.  He declared a major in economics, and was nicknamed " Urkel " by college teammate Notah Begay III .  In 1995, he successfully defended his U.S. Amateur title at the Newport Country Club in Rhode Island  and was voted Pac-10 Player of the Year, NCAA First Team All-American, and Stanford's Male Freshman of the Year (an award that encompasses all sports).   , At age 19, Woods participated in his first PGA Tour major, the 1995 Masters Tournament , and tied for 41st as the only amateur to make the cut. At age 20 in 1996, he became the first golfer to win three consecutive U.S. Amateur titles  and won the NCAA individual golf championship .  In winning the Silver Medal as leading amateur at The Open Championship , he tied the record for an amateur aggregate score of 281.  He left college after two years and turned professional. In 1996, Woods moved out of California, stating in 2013 that it was due to the state's tax rate.    , Woods became a professional golfer in August 1996, and immediately signed deals with Nike, Inc. and Titleist that ranked as the most lucrative endorsement contracts in golf history at that time.   Woods was named Sports Illustrated ' s 1996 Sportsman of the Year and PGA Tour Rookie of the Year .  In April 1997, he won his first major , the Masters , becoming the tournament's youngest-ever winner.  Two months later, he set the record for the fastest-ever ascent to No. 1 in the Official World Golf Rankings .  After a lackluster 1998, Woods finished the 1999 season with eight wins, including the PGA Championship , a feat not achieved since 1974.   , In 2000, Woods achieved six consecutive wins, the longest winning streak since Ben Hogan did it in 1948. One of these was the 2000 U.S. Open , where he broke or tied nine tournament records in what Sports Illustrated called "the greatest performance in golf history," in which Woods won the tournament by a 15-stroke margin and earned a check for $800,000.  At age 24, he became the youngest golfer to achieve the Career Grand Slam .  At the end of 2000, Woods had won nine of the twenty PGA Tour events he entered and had broken the record for lowest scoring average in tour history. He was named the Sports Illustrated Sportsman of the Year, the only athlete to be honored twice, and was ranked by Golf Digest magazine as the twelfth-best golfer of all time.   , Woods' victory in the 2001 Masters Tournament made him the first player to hold all four major professional golf titles at the same time, although not in the same calendar year.  Following a stellar 2001 and 2002 in which Woods continued to dominate the tour, Woods' career hit a "slump".   He did not win a major in 2003 or 2004. In September 2004, Vijay Singh overtook Woods in the Official World Golf Rankings, ending Woods' record streak of 264 weeks at #1.  , Woods rebounded in 2005, winning six official PGA Tour money events and reclaiming the top spot in July after swapping it back and forth with Singh over the first half of the year.  , In 2006, Woods began dominantly, winning his first two PGA tournaments but failing to capture his fifth Masters championship in April.   Following the death of his father in May, Woods took a nine-week hiatus from the tour and appeared rusty upon his return at the U.S. Open, missing the cut at Winged Foot .  However, he quickly returned to form and ended the year by winning six consecutive tour events. At the season's close, with 54 wins and 12 majors wins, Woods had broken the tour records for both total wins and total majors wins over eleven seasons.  , Woods continued to excel in 2007 and the first part of 2008. In April 2008, he underwent knee surgery and missed the next two months on the tour.  Woods returned for the 2008 U.S. Open , where he struggled the first day but ultimately claimed a dramatic victory over Rocco Mediate , after which Mediate said, "This guy does things that are just not normal by any stretch of the imagination," and Kenny Perry added, "He beat everybody on one leg."    Two days later, Woods announced that he would miss the remainder of the season due to further knee surgery, and that his knee was more severely damaged than previously revealed, prompting even greater praise for his U.S. Open performance. Woods called it "my greatest ever championship."    In Woods' absence, TV ratings for the remainder of the season suffered a huge decline from 2007.  , Upon Woods' much-anticipated return in 2009, he performed well, including a spectacular performance at the 2009 Presidents Cup , but failed to win a major, the first year since 2004 that he had not done so.    After his marital infidelities came to light at the end of 2009 and received massive media coverage, Woods announced in December that he would be taking an indefinite break from competitive golf. In February 2010, he delivered a televised apology for his behavior. During this period, several companies ended their endorsement deals with Woods. , Woods returned to competition in April at the 2010 Masters Tournament , where he finished in a tie for fourth place.  He followed the Masters with poor showings at the Quail Hollow Championship and the Players Championship, where he withdrew in the fourth round citing injury.  Shortly afterward, Hank Haney , Woods' coach since 2003, resigned the position; he was replaced in August by Sean Foley . The rest of the season went badly for Woods, who failed to win a single event for the first time since turning professional, while nevertheless finishing the season ranked No. 2 in the world. , Woods' performance continued to suffer in 2011, taking its toll on his ranking. After falling to No. 7 in March, he rebounded to No. 5 with a strong showing at the 2011 Masters Tournament , where he tied for fourth place.    Due to leg injuries incurred at the Masters, he missed several summer events; in July he fired his longtime caddy Steve Williams , replacing him temporarily with friend Bryon Bell.   After returning to tournament play in August, Woods continued to falter, and his ranking gradually fell to a low of #58.  He rose to No. 50 in mid-November after a third-place finish at the Emirates Australian Open , and broke his winless streak with a victory at December's Chevron World Challenge .   , Woods began his 2012 season with two tournaments (the Abu Dhabi HSBC Golf Championship and the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am ) where he started off well, but struggled on the final rounds. Following the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship , where he was knocked out in the second round by missing a 5-foot putt,  Woods revised his putting technique and tied for second at the Honda Classic , with the lowest final round score in his PGA Tour career. After a short time off due to another leg injury, Woods won the Arnold Palmer Invitational , his first win on the PGA Tour since the BMW Championship in September 2009. Following several dismal performances, Woods notched his 73rd PGA Tour win at the Memorial Tournament in June, tying Jack Nicklaus in second place for most PGA Tour victories;  a month later, Woods surpassed Nicklaus with a win at the AT&T National , to trail only Sam Snead , who had 82 PGA wins.  , 2013 would bring a return of Woods' dominating play. He won the Farmers Insurance Open in January 2013 by four shots for his 75th PGA Tour win. It was the seventh time he had won the event.  In March, he won the WGC-Cadillac Championship , also for the seventh time, giving him his 17th WGC title and first since 2009.  Two weeks later, he won the Arnold Palmer Invitational , winning the event for a record-tying 8th time. The win moved him back to the top of the world rankings.  To commemorate that achievement, Nike was quick to launch an ad with the tagline "winning takes care of everything".  , On April 13, 2013, Woods was up for disqualification from the 2013 Masters Tournament over claims he took an illegal drop after his third shot on the par-5 15th hole bounced off of the pin and into the water. After further review, Woods was assessed a two-stroke penalty for the drop and not disqualified.  He finished T4 in the event. Woods won The Players Championship in May 2013, his second career win at the event, notching his fourth win of the 2013 season. It was the quickest he had ever gotten to four wins in any season in his professional career. , Woods had a poor showing at the 2013 U.S Open as a result of an elbow injury sustained at The Players Championship . In finishing at +13, he recorded his worst score ever as a professional and finished 12 strokes behind winner Justin Rose . After a prolonged break because of the injury, during which he missed the Greenbrier Classic and his own AT&T National , he returned at the Open Championship at Muirfield . Despite being in contention all week and beginning the final round only two stokes behind Lee Westwood , he struggled with the speed of the greens and could only manage a 3-over-par 74 which left him tied for 6th place, five strokes behind eventual winner Phil Mickelson . Two weeks later, Woods returned to form at the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational , recording his 5th win of the season and 8th win at the event in its 15-year history. His second round 61 matched his record score on the PGA Tour and could easily have been a 59 were it not for some short missed birdie putts on the closing holes. This gave him a seven stroke lead which he held on to for the rest of the tournament. Woods would never contend at the PGA Championship at Oak Hill Country Club and would come short of winning a major for the 5th full season, only contending in two of the four majors in 2013. , After a slow start to 2014, Woods injured himself during the Honda Classic and was unable to finish, withdrawing after 13 holes of the final round citing back pain.  He subsequently competed in the WGC-Cadillac Championship but was visibly in pain during much of the last round. He was forced to skip the Arnold Palmer Invitational at the end of March 2014  and, on April 1, announced that he would miss the Masters Tournament for the first time since 1994 after undergoing a microdiscectomy .  Woods returned at the Quicken Loans National in June, however he stated that his expectations for the week were low. He would struggle with nearly every aspect of his game and miss the cut. He next played at The Open Championship , contested at Hoylake, where Woods had won eight years prior. Woods fired a brilliant 69 in the first round to put himself in contention, but shot 77 on Friday and would eventually finish 69th. Despite his back pain, he played at the 2014 PGA Championship where he failed to make the cut. On August 25, 2014, Woods and his swing coach Sean Foley parted ways. In the four years under Foley, he won eight times but no majors. He had previously won eight majors with Harmon and six with Haney. Woods said there is currently no timetable to find a replacement swing coach.  , On February 5, 2015, Woods withdrew from the Farmers Insurance Open after another back injury.  Woods stated on his website that it was unrelated to his previous surgery and was taking a break from golf until his back healed.  He returned for the 2015 Masters Tournament , finishing in a tie for 17th. In the final round, Woods injured his wrist after his club hit a tree root. He later stated that a bone popped out of his wrist, but he adjusted it back into place and finished the round.  , On August 20, 2007, California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and First Lady Maria Shriver announced that Woods would be inducted into the California Hall of Fame . He was inducted December 5, 2007 at The California Museum for History, Women and the Arts in Sacramento.   , He has been named "Athlete of the Decade" by the Associated Press in December 2009.  He has been named Associated Press Male Athlete of the Year a record-tying four times, and is the only person to be named Sports Illustrated ' s Sportsman of the Year more than once. , Since his record-breaking win at the 1997 Masters Tournament , golf's increased popularity is commonly attributed to Woods' presence. He is credited by some sources for dramatically increasing prize money in golf, generating interest in new audiences, and for drawing the largest TV audiences in golf history.       , During the first decade of his professional career, Woods was the world's most marketable athlete.  Shortly after his 21st birthday in 1996, he began signing endorsement deals with numerous companies, including General Motors , Titleist , General Mills , American Express , Accenture , and Nike, Inc. In 2000, he signed a 5-year, $105 million contract extension with Nike. It was the largest endorsing deal ever signed by an athlete at that time.  Woods' endorsement has been credited with playing a significant role in taking the Nike Golf brand from a "start-up" golf company earlier in the past decade, to becoming the leading golf apparel company in the world, and a major player in the equipment and golf ball market.   Nike Golf is one of the fastest growing brands in the sport, with an estimated $600 million in sales.  Woods has been described as the "ultimate endorser" for Nike Golf,  frequently seen wearing Nike gear during tournaments, and even in advertisements for other products.  Woods receives a percentage from the sales of Nike Golf apparel, footwear, golf equipment, golf balls,  and has a building named after him at Nike's headquarters campus in Beaverton , Oregon.  , In 2002, Woods was involved in every aspect of the launch of Buick 's Rendezvous SUV . A company spokesman stated that Buick was happy with the value of Woods' endorsement, pointing out that more than 130,000 Rendezvous vehicles were sold in 2002 and 2003. "That exceeded our forecasts," he was quoted as saying, "It has to be in recognition of Tiger." In February 2004, Buick renewed Woods' endorsement contract for another five years, in a deal reportedly worth $40 million.  , Woods collaborated closely with TAG Heuer to develop the world's first professional golf watch, released in April 2005.  The lightweight, titanium -construction watch, designed to be worn while playing the game, incorporates numerous innovative design features to accommodate golf play. It is capable of absorbing up to 5,000 Gs of shock, far in excess of the forces generated by a normal golf swing.  In 2006, the TAG Heuer Professional Golf Watch won the prestigious iF product design award in the Leisure/Lifestyle category.  , Woods also endorses the Tiger Woods PGA Tour series of video games; he has done so since 1999.  In 2006, he signed a six-year contract with Electronic Arts , the series' publisher.  , In February 2007, along with Roger Federer and Thierry Henry , Woods became an ambassador for the " Gillette Champions" marketing campaign. Gillette did not disclose financial terms, though an expert estimated the deal could total between $10 million and $20 million.  , In October 2007, Gatorade announced that Woods would have his own brand of sports drink starting in March 2008. "Gatorade Tiger" was his first U.S. deal with a beverage company and his first licensing agreement. Although no figures were officially disclosed, Golfweek magazine reported that it was for five years and could pay him as much as $100 million.  The company decided in early fall 2009 to discontinue the drink due to weak sales.  , According to Golf Digest , Woods made $769,440,709 from 1996 to 2007,  and the magazine predicted that by 2010, Woods would pass one billion dollars in earnings.  In 2009, Forbes confirmed that Woods was indeed the world's first athlete to earn over a billion dollars in his career (before taxes), after accounting for the $10 million bonus Woods received for the FedEx Cup title.   The same year, Forbes estimated his net worth to be $600 million, making him the second richest "African American" behind only Oprah Winfrey .  , In July 2011, Woods appeared on a 15-second Japanese television commercial, endorsing a heat back rub by Kowa Co., the Vantelin Kowa rub. Details of the deal, which was made in late 2010, were not disclosed.  , In October 2012, it was announced that Woods had signed an exclusive endorsement deal with Fuse Science, Inc, a sports nutrition firm.  , A case was initiated in 1997 by Woods and fellow golfer, Arnold Palmer in the effort to stop the unauthorized sale of their images and alleged signatures in the memorabilia market against Bruce Matthews, the owner of Gotta Have It Golf, Inc. and others. Matthews and associated parties, counter claimed that Woods and his company, ETW Corporation committed several acts including, breach of contract, breach of implied duty of good faith and violations of Florida's Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act.  Palmer was also named in the counter-suit, accused of violating the same licensing agreement in conjunction with his company Arnold Palmer Enterprises. , On March 12, 2014, a Florida jury found in favor of Gotta Have It on its breach of contract and other related claims, rejected ETW's counterclaims, and awarded Gotta Have It $668,346 in damages.   The award may end up exceeding $1 million once interest has been factored in, though the ruling may be appealed. , Early in Woods' career, a small number of golf experts expressed concern about his impact on the competitiveness of the game and the public appeal of professional golf. Sportswriter Bill Lyon of Knight-Ridder asked in a column, "Isn't Tiger Woods actually bad for golf?" (though Lyon ultimately concluded that he was not).  At first, some pundits feared that Woods would drive the spirit of competition out of the game of golf by making existing courses obsolete and relegating opponents to simply competing for second place each week. , A related effect was measured by economist Jennifer Brown of the University of California, Berkeley who found that other golfers played worse when competing against Woods than when he was not in the tournament. The scores of highly skilled (exempt) golfers are nearly one stroke higher when playing against Woods. This effect was larger when he was on winning streaks and disappeared during his well-publicized slump in 2003–04. Brown explains the results by noting that competitors of similar skill can hope to win by increasing their level of effort, but that, when facing a "superstar" competitor, extra exertion does not significantly raise one's level of winning while increasing risk of injury or exhaustion, leading to reduced effort.  , Many courses in the PGA Tour rotation (including Major Championship sites like Augusta National ) have added yardage to their tees in an effort to reduce the advantage of long hitters like Woods, a strategy that became known as "Tiger-Proofing". Woods said he welcomed the change, in that adding yardage to courses did not affect his ability to win.  , Woods has won 79 official PGA Tour events, including 14 majors . He is 14–1 when going into the final round of a major with at least a share of the lead. He has been heralded as "the greatest closer in history" by multiple golf experts.    He owns the lowest career scoring average and the most career earnings of any player in PGA Tour history. , Woods victory at the 2013 Players Championship also marked a win in his 300th PGA Tour start.  He also won golf tournaments in his 100th (in 2000) and 200th (in 2006) tour starts.   , Woods has spent the most consecutive and cumulative weeks atop the world rankings. He is one of five players (along with Gene Sarazen , Ben Hogan , Gary Player , and Jack Nicklaus) to have won all four professional major championships in his career, known as the Career Grand Slam, and was the youngest to do so.  Woods is the only player to have won all four professional major championships in a row, accomplishing the feat in the 2000–2001 seasons. , When Woods first joined the professional tour in 1996, his long drives had a large impact on the world of golf.   However, when he did not upgrade his equipment in the following years (insisting upon the use of True Temper Dynamic Gold steel-shafted clubs and smaller steel clubheads that promoted accuracy over distance),  many opponents caught up to him. Phil Mickelson even made a joke in 2003 about Woods using "inferior equipment", which did not sit well with Nike , Titleist nor Woods.   During 2004, Woods finally upgraded his driver technology to a larger clubhead and graphite shaft, which, coupled with his clubhead speed, made him one of the Tour's lengthier players off the tee once again. , Despite his power advantage, Woods has always focused on developing an excellent all-around game. Although in recent years he has typically been near the bottom of the Tour rankings in driving accuracy, his iron play is generally accurate, his recovery and bunker play is very strong, and his putting (especially under pressure) is possibly his greatest asset. He is largely responsible for a shift to higher standards of athleticism amongst professional golfers, and is known for putting in more hours of practice than most.    , From mid-1993, while he was still an amateur, until 2004, Woods worked almost exclusively with leading swing coach Butch Harmon . From mid-1997, Harmon and Woods fashioned a major redevelopment of Woods' full swing, achieving greater consistency, better distance control, and better kinesiology . The changes began to pay off in 1999.  From March 2004 to 2010, Woods was coached by Hank Haney , who worked on flattening his swing plane. Woods continued to win tournaments with Haney, but his driving accuracy dropped significantly. Haney resigned in May 2010 and was replaced by Sean Foley .  , Mike "Fluff" Cowan served as Woods' caddy from the start of his professional career until March 1999.  He was replaced by Steve Williams , who became a close friend of Woods and is often credited with helping him with key shots and putts.  In June 2011, Woods fired Williams and replaced him with Woods' friend Bryon Bell, on an interim basis. Joe LaCava, a former caddy of both Fred Couples and Dustin Johnson , was hired by Woods shortly after.  , As of 2013 [update] WGC-Bridgestone Invitational:   , The Tiger Woods Foundation was established in 1996 by Woods and his father Earl, with the primary goal of promoting golf among inner-city children.   The foundation has conducted junior golf clinics across the country, and sponsors the Tiger Woods Foundation National Junior Golf Team in the Junior World Golf Championships.   As of December 2010, TWF employed approximately 55 people.   , The foundation operates the Tiger Woods Learning Center , a $50 million, 35,000-square-foot facility in Anaheim, California , providing college-access programs for underserved youth.    The TWLC opened in 2006 and features seven classrooms, extensive multi-media facilities and an outdoor golf teaching area.  The center has since expanded to four additional campuses: two in Washington, DC ; one in Philadelphia ; and one in Stuart, Florida .  , The foundation benefits from the annual Chevron World Challenge and AT&T National golf tournaments hosted by Woods.  In October 2011, the foundation hosted the first Tiger Woods Invitational at Pebble Beach.  Other annual fundraisers have included the concert events Block Party, last held in 2009 in Anaheim, and Tiger Jam , last held in 2011 in Las Vegas after a one-year hiatus.     , In November 2006, Woods announced his intention to begin designing golf courses around the world through a new company, Tiger Woods Design .  A month later, he announced that the company's first course would be in Dubai as part of a 25.3 million-square-foot development, The Tiger Woods Dubai .  The Al Ruwaya Golf Course was initially expected to finish construction in 2009.  As of February 2010, only seven holes had been completed; in April 2011, The New York Times reported that the project had been shelved permanently.   In 2013, the partnership between Tiger Woods Design and Dubai Holding was dissolved.  , Tiger Woods Design has taken on two other courses, neither of which has materialized. In August 2007, Woods announced The Cliffs at High Carolina, a private course in the Blue Ridge Mountains near Asheville, North Carolina .  After a groundbreaking in November 2008, the project suffered cash flow problems and suspended construction.  A third course, in Punta Brava , Mexico , was announced in October 2008, but incurred delays due to issues with permits and an environmental impact study .   Construction on the Punta Brava course has not yet begun.  , The problems encountered by these projects have been credited to factors including overly optimistic estimates of their value; declines throughout the global economy, particularly the U.S. crash in home prices ; and decreased appeal of Woods following his 2009 infidelity scandal.  , Woods wrote a golf instruction column for Golf Digest magazine from 1997 to February 2011.  In 2001 he wrote a best-selling golf instruction book, How I Play Golf , which had the largest print run of any golf book for its first edition, 1.5 million copies.  , In November 2003, Woods became engaged to Elin Nordegren , a Swedish former model and daughter of former minister of migration Barbro Holmberg and radio journalist Thomas Nordegren .  They were introduced during The Open Championship in 2001 by Swedish golfer Jesper Parnevik , who had employed her as an au pair . They married on October 5, 2004, at the Sandy Lane resort in Barbados , and lived at Isleworth , a community in Windermere , a suburb of Orlando, Florida .   In 2006, they purchased a $39 million estate in Jupiter Island, Florida , and began constructing a 10,000-square-foot home; Woods moved there in 2010 following the couple's divorce,   which was finalized August 23, 2010.  , Woods and Nordegren's first child, a daughter named Sam Alexis Woods, was born in 2007. Woods chose the name because his own father had always called him Sam.  Their son, Charlie Axel Woods, was born in 2009.  , , On November 25, 2009, supermarket tabloid The National Enquirer published a story claiming that Woods had an extramarital affair with New York City nightclub manager Rachel Uchitel , a claim she denied.  Two days later, around 2:30 a.m. on November 27, Woods left home in his Cadillac Escalade SUV and, while still on his street, collided with a fire hydrant, a tree, and several hedges.  He was treated for minor facial lacerations and received a ticket for careless driving.   Following intense media speculation about the accident, Woods released a statement on his website taking sole responsibility for the accident, calling it a "private matter" and crediting his wife for helping him from the car.   On November 30, Woods announced that he would not be appearing at his own charity golf tournament, the Chevron World Challenge , nor any other tournaments in 2009, due to his injuries.  , On December 2, following the release by US Weekly of a voicemail message allegedly left by Tiger for a mistress, Woods released another statement in which he admitted "transgressions" and apologized to "all of those who have supported [him] over the years", while reiterating his and his family's right to privacy.   Over the next few days, more than a dozen women claimed in various media outlets to have had affairs with Woods.  On December 11, he released a third statement admitting to infidelity and apologizing again, as well as announcing that he would be taking "an indefinite break from professional golf."  , In the days and months following Woods' admission of infidelity, several companies re-evaluated their relationships with him. Accenture , AT&T , Gatorade and General Motors completely ended their sponsorship deals, while Gillette suspended advertising featuring Woods.    TAG Heuer dropped Woods from advertising in December 2009 and officially ended their deal when his contract expired in August 2011.   The magazine Golf Digest suspended Woods' monthly column beginning with the February 2010 issue.  In contrast, Nike continued to support Woods, as did Electronic Arts , which was working with Woods on the game Tiger Woods PGA Tour Online .  A December 2009 study estimated the shareholder loss caused by Woods' affairs to be between $5 billion and $12 billion.    , On February 19, 2010, Woods gave a televised statement in which he said he had been in a 45-day therapy program since the end of December. He again apologized for his actions. "I thought I could get away with whatever I wanted to," he said. "I felt that I had worked hard my entire life and deserved to enjoy all the temptations around me. I felt I was entitled. Thanks to money and fame, I didn't have to go far to find them. I was wrong. I was foolish." He said he did not know yet when he would be returning to golf.   He announced a few weeks later on March 16 that he would be returning at the 2010 Masters Tournament on April 8.  , Woods and Nordegren divorced on August 23, 2010.  , From childhood Woods was raised as a Buddhist , and he actively practiced this faith from childhood until well into his adult professional golf career.  In a 2000 article, Woods was quoted as saying he "believes in Buddhism... Not every aspect, but most of it."  He has attributed his deviations and infidelity to his losing track of Buddhism. He said, "Buddhism teaches me to stop following every impulse and to learn restraint. Obviously I lost track of what I was taught."  , Woods is registered to vote as an independent .  In January 2009, Woods delivered a speech commemorating the military at the We Are One: The Obama Inaugural Celebration at the Lincoln Memorial .   In April 2009, Woods visited the White House while in the Washington, D.C. area promoting the golf tournament he hosts, the AT&T National .  , Woods underwent laser eye surgery in 1999. Before this surgery, Woods' eyesight was minus 11. He considered the surgery a big help in his career and a good alternative to the glasses and contact lenses.  He immediately started winning tour events after the surgery. He received money from TLC Laser Eye Centers to endorse them.  In 2007, he had a second laser eye surgery when his vision began to deteriorate again.  , On March 18, 2013, Woods announced that he and skier Lindsey Vonn were dating.  They split in May 2015.  , Player in bold denotes current number one  Philip Alfred Mickelson (born June 16, 1970) is an American professional golfer . He has won 42 events on the PGA Tour , including five major championships : three Masters titles ( 2004 , 2006 , 2010 ), a PGA Championship ( 2005 ),  and an Open Championship ( 2013 ).  , Mickelson is one of 16 golfers in the history of the sport to win at least three of the four professional majors.  The only major that has eluded him is the U.S. Open . Mickelson has finished runner-up in the U.S. Open a record six times.  , Mickelson has spent over 700 weeks in the top-10 of the Official World Golf Ranking ,  has reached a career-high world ranking of 2nd several times and has a lifetime exemption on the PGA Tour. Mickelson is nicknamed " Lefty " for his left-handed swing, even though he is otherwise right-handed . He was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame in May 2012.  , , , Born in San Diego , California ,  to parents Philip Anthony Mickelson, (an airline pilot and former naval aviator ),  and Mary Mickelson (née Santos),  he was raised there and in Scottsdale, Arizona . Although right-handed otherwise, he plays golf left-handed, as he learned by watching his right-handed father swing and mirroring his style.  Mickelson began golf under his father's instruction before starting school. Phil Sr.'s work schedule as a commercial pilot allowed them to play together several times a week and an extensive practice area in their San Diego backyard allowed young Phil to hone his creative short game.  Mickelson graduated from the University of San Diego High School in 1988. , Mickelson attended Arizona State University in Tempe on a golf scholarship and graduated in 1992. While at ASU, he became the face of amateur golf in the United States , capturing three NCAA individual championships and three Haskins Awards (1990, 1991, 1992) as the outstanding collegiate golfer. He also led the Sun Devils to the NCAA National Championship in 1990. Over the course of his collegiate career, he won 16 tournaments.  , Mickelson was the second collegiate golfer to earn first-team All-American honors all four years. In addition in 1990 he became the first golfer with a left-handed swing to win the U.S. Amateur title. Perhaps his greatest achievement as an amateur came in January 1991 when he won his first PGA Tour event, the Northern Telecom Open in Tucson . At age 20, he was only the sixth amateur to win a tour event, and the first in over five years, last by Scott Verplank at the Western Open in August 1985 . Other players to accomplish this feat include Doug Sanders , who won the 1956 Canadian Open , and Gene Littler , the winner of the San Diego Open in 1954.  Through 2014 , Mickelson is the last amateur to win on the PGA Tour. , In 1991, Mickelson was the low amateur at the Masters Tournament in Augusta, Georgia . , Following his graduation from ASU in 1992 Mickelson turned professional and bypassed the Tour's qualifying process ( Q-School ) because of his 1991 win in Tucson, which earned him a two-year exemption. In early 1993 , Mickelson hired Jim "Bones" Mackay  as his caddy, who remains in that position today. He won many PGA Tour tournaments in this period, including the Byron Nelson Golf Classic and the World Series of Golf in 1996 , the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am in 1998 , the Colonial National Invitation in 2000 and the Greater Hartford Open in 2001 and again in 2002 . , His win in the Buick Invitational in 2000 ended Tiger Woods ' streak of six consecutive tournament victories. After the win, Mickelson said, "I didn't want to be the bad guy. I wasn't trying to end the streak per se. I was just trying to win the golf tournament."  , Although he had performed very well in the majors up to the end of the 2003 season (17 top-ten finishes, and six second- or third-place finishes between 1999 and 2003), his inability to win any of them lead to him frequently being described as the "best golfer never to win a major".  , Mickelson's first professional major championship win came at the Masters in 2004 , where he won with an 18-foot (5.5 m) birdie putt on the final hole. The runner-up, a stroke back, was Ernie Els ; playing in different pairs, the two had traded birdies and eagles on the back nine on Sunday.  In addition to getting the "majors monkey" off his back, this made him only the third golfer with a left-handed swing to win a major, the others being New Zealander Sir Bob Charles , who won the The Open Championship in 1963 , and Canadian Mike Weir , who won The Masters in 2003 . (Like Mickelson, Weir is a right-hander who plays left-handed.) A fourth left-handed winner of a major is Bubba Watson , the Masters champion in 2012 and 2014 . , Just prior to the Ryder Cup in 2004 , Mickelson was dropped from his long-standing contract with Titleist/Acushnet Golf, when he took heat for a voicemail message he left for a Callaway Golf executive. In it he praised their driver and golf ball, and thanked them for their help in getting some equipment for his brother. This memo was played to all of their salesmen, and eventually found its way back to Titleist. He was then let out of his multi-year deal with Titleist 16 months early, and signed on with Callaway Golf, his current equipment sponsor. He endured a great deal of ridicule and scrutiny from the press and fellow Ryder Cup members for his equipment change so close to the Ryder Cup matches. He faltered at the 2004 Ryder Cup with a 1–3–0 record, but refused to blame the sudden change in equipment or his practice methods for his performance.  , In November 2004, Mickelson tallied his career-low for an 18-hole round: a 59 at the PGA Grand Slam of Golf at Poipu Bay Golf Course in Hawaii . , The following year in a Monday, final-round conclusion forced by weather, Mickelson captured his second professional major at the 2005 PGA Championship at Baltusrol . On the 18th hole, Mickelson hit one of his trademark soft pitches from deep greenside rough to within a foot and a half (0.45 m) of the cup, and made his birdie to finish at a 4-under-par total of 276, one shot ahead of Steve Elkington and Thomas Bjørn . , Mickelson captured his third professional major title the following spring at The Masters in 2006 . Mickelson won his second Green Jacket after shooting a 3-under-par final round, winning by two strokes over his nearest rival, Tim Clark .  This win propelled him to 2nd place in the Official World Golf Ranking (his career best), behind Woods, and ahead of Vijay Singh and Retief Goosen . , After winning two majors in a row heading into the 2006 U.S. Open at Winged Foot , Mickelson was bidding to join Ben Hogan and Tiger Woods as the only players to win three consecutive professional majors. Mickelson was the joint-leader going into the final round, but he was part of a wild finish to the tournament, in which he ended up in a tie for second place at +6 (286), one shot behind Australian champion Geoff Ogilvy . , On the 71st hole, Mickelson, with the lead at +4, missed the fairway to the left, and his drive finished inside a garbage can, from which he was granted a free drop; he parred the hole, but his bogey on the previous hole reduced his lead to one shot heading to the final hole. , Needing a par on the 72nd hole for a one-shot victory, Mickelson chose to hit a driver off the tee on the final hole, and hit it well left of the fairway (he had only hit two of thirteen fairways previously in the round). The ball bounced off a corporate hospitality tent and settled in an area of trampled-down grass that was enclosed with trees. He decided to go for the green with his second shot, rather than play it safe and pitch out into the fairway. His ball then hit a tree, and did not advance more than 50 yards (46 m). His next shot plugged into the left greenside bunker. He was unable to get up and down from there, resulting in a double bogey, and costing him a chance of winning the championship outright or getting into a playoff with Ogilvy.  , After his final round, Mickelson said: "I'm still in shock. I still can't believe I did that. This one hurts more than any tournament because I had it won. Congratulations to Geoff Ogilvy on some great play. I want to thank all the people that supported me. The only thing I can say is I'm sorry."  He was even more candid when he said: "I just can't believe I did that, I'm such an idiot."   , During the third round of the 2006 Ford Championship at Doral , Mickelson gave a spectator $200 after his wayward tee shot at the par-5 10th broke the man's watch.  , Mickelson also has shown other signs of appreciation. In 2007 after hearing the story of retired NFL player, Conrad Dobler , and his family on ESPN explaining their struggles to pay medical bills, Mickelson volunteered to pay tuition for Holli Dobler, Conrad Dobler's daughter, at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio .  , Frustrated with his driving accuracy, Mickelson made the decision in April 2007 to leave longtime swing coach, Rick Smith . He currently works with Butch Harmon , a former coach of Greg Norman and Tiger Woods . On May 13, 2007, Mickelson came from a stroke back on the final round to shoot a three-under 69 to win The Players Championship with an 11-under-par 277. This Mother's Day win was his first without his wife and children present. , In the 2007 U.S. Open at Oakmont , after shooting 11 over par after 2 rounds, Mickelson missed the cut (by a stroke) for the first time in 31 majors, since The Open Championship in 1999 at Carnoustie . He had been hampered by a wrist injury that was incurred while practicing in the thick rough at Oakmont a few weeks before the tournament. , On September 3, 2007, Mickelson won the Deutsche Bank Championship which is the second FedEx Cup playoff event. On the final day, he was paired with Tiger Woods , who ended up finishing two strokes behind Mickelson in a tie for second. It was the first time Mickelson was able to beat Woods while paired together on the final day of a tournament. The next day Mickelson announced that he would not be competing in the third FedEx Cup playoff event. The day before his withdrawal, Mickelson said during a television interview that PGA Tour Commissioner, Tim Finchem , had not responded to advice he had given him on undisclosed issues.  , In 2008, Mickelson won the Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial with a −14, one shot ahead of Tim Clark and Rod Pampling . Mickelson shot a first-round 65 to start off the tournament at −5. He ended the day tied with Brett Wetterich , two shots behind leader, Johnson Wagner .  Mickelson shot a second round 68, and the third round 65, overall, being −12 for the first three rounds.  On the final hole, he hit his approach shot over a tree, landing on the green where he one-putted for the win.  , In a Men's Vogue article, Mickelson recounted his effort to lose 20 pounds with the help of trainer Sean Cochran. "Once the younger players started to come on tour, he realized that he had to start working out to maintain longevity in his career ," Cochran said.  Mickelson's regimen consisted of increasing flexibility and power, eating five smaller meals a day, aerobic training, and carrying his own golf bag.  , Mickelson was inducted into the National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame in 2008.  , Mickelson won for the first time in 2009 by defending his title at the Northern Trust Open at Riviera Country Club . He finished one stroke ahead of Steve Stricker . It was Mickelson's 35th win on tour; he surpassed Vijay Singh for second place on the current PGA Tour wins list. A month later, he won his 36th title on the tour, and his first World Golf Championship , at the 2009 WGC-CA Championship with a one- stroke win over Nick Watney . , On May 20, 2009, it was announced that Mickelson's wife, Amy, was diagnosed with breast cancer , and Mickelson announced he would suspend his PGA Tour schedule indefinitely. She would begin treatment with major surgery as early as the following two weeks. Mickelson was scheduled to play the HP Byron Nelson Championship May 21–24, and to defend his title May 28–31 at the Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial , but withdrew from both events.  During the final round of the 2009 BMW PGA Championship , fellow golfer and family friend John Daly wore bright pink trousers in support of Mickelson's wife.  Also, the next Saturday, at the Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial , a "Pink Out" event was hosted, and the PGA Tour players all wore pink that day, to support the Mickelson family. , On May 31, Mickelson announced that he would return to play on the PGA Tour in June at the St. Jude Classic and the U.S. Open , since he had heard from the doctors treating his wife that her cancer had been detected in an early stage.  Mickelson shot a final round 70 at the 2009 U.S. Open and recorded his fifth runner-up finish at the U.S. Open . He shared the lead after an eagle at the 13th hole, but fell back with bogeys on 15 and 17; Lucas Glover captured the championship. , On July 6, 2009, it was announced that his mother, Mary Mickelson, was diagnosed with breast cancer and would have surgery at the same hospital where his wife was treated.  After hearing the news of his mother now being diagnosed with breast cancer, Mickelson took another leave of absence from the Tour, missing The Open Championship at Turnberry . On July 28, Mickelson announced he would return to the PGA Tour in August at the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational , the week before the PGA Championship at Hazeltine National Golf Club in Chaska, Minnesota . , In September, Mickelson won The Tour Championship for the second time in his career. He entered the final round four strokes off the lead, but shot a final round 65 to win the event by three strokes over Tiger Woods .  With the win, Mickelson finished the season second behind Woods in the 2009 FedEx Cup standings.  , On November 8, 2009, Mickelson won the WGC-HSBC Champions by one shot over Ernie Els in Shanghai .  , On April 11, 2010, Mickelson won the 2010 Masters Tournament with a 16-under-par performance, giving him a three-stroke win over Lee Westwood in Augusta, Georgia . The win marked the third Masters victory for Mickelson and his fourth professional major championship overall.  Critical to Mickelson's win was a dramatic run in the third round on Saturday in which Mickelson, trailing leader Westwood by five strokes as he prepared his approach shot to the 13th green, proceeded to make eagle, then to hole-out for eagle from 141 yards at the next hole, the par 4 14th, then on the next, the par 5 15th, to miss eagle from 81 yards by mere inches. After tapping in for birdie at 15, Mickelson, at −12, led Westwood, at −11, who had bogeyed hole 12 and failed to capitalize on the par 5 13th, settling for par. , Westwood did recapture the one-stroke lead by round's end, but the momentum carried forward for Mickelson into round 4, where he posted a bogey-free 67 to Westwood's 71, and no other pursuer was able to keep pace to the end, though K. J. Choi and Anthony Kim made notable charges. For good measure, Mickelson birdied the final hole and memorably greeted his waiting wife, Amy, with a prolonged hug and kiss.  , For many fans, this finish to the tournament was especially poignant, given Amy's suffering from breast cancer for the preceding year; Mary Mickelson, Phil's mother, was also dealing with cancer. CBS Sports announcer Jim Nantz 's call of the final birdie putt, "That's a win for the family," was seen by many as capturing the moment well.  , Thanks to the dramatic return of Tiger Woods to competitive play after a scandal-ridden 20-week absence, to his close contention throughout for the lead (he finished tied with Choi for 4th at −11), and to Mickelson and others' memorably exciting play over the weekend, the 2010 Masters showed strong television ratings in the United States, ranking third all-time to Woods's historic wins in 1997 and 2001.  Mickelson's win left him second only to Woods in major championships among his competitive contemporaries, moving him ahead of Ernie Els , Vijay Singh and Pádraig Harrington , with three major championships each and each, like Mickelson, with dozens of worldwide wins. , Mickelson, who was one of the favorites for the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach , shot 74 and 66 on Thursday and Friday to sit a shot off the lead. However, two weekend scores of 73 gave him a T4 finish. During the remainder of the 2010 season, Mickelson had multiple opportunities to become the number one player in the Official World Golf Ranking following the travails of Tiger Woods. However, a string of disappointing finishes by Mickelson saw the number one spot eventually go to Englishman Lee Westwood . , In the days leading up to the 2010 PGA Championship at Whistling Straits (located near Mosel , Sheboygan County , at Haven, Wisconsin ), Mickelson announced he had been diagnosed with psoriatic arthritis . He added that he had started medical treatment, and had become a vegetarian in hopes of aiding his recovery. He maintains that both his short- and long-term prognosis are good, that the condition should have no long-term effect on his golfing career, and that he currently feels well. He also stated that the arthritis may go into permanent remission after one year of medical treatment. He went on to finish the championship T12, five shots back of victor Martin Kaymer . , Mickelson started his season at the Farmers Insurance Open at Torrey Pines Golf Course . He shot 3 rounds of 67-69-68 and was tied for the 54 hole lead with Bill Haas . Mickelson needed to hole out on the 18th hole for eagle from 74 yards to force a playoff with Bubba Watson . He hit it to 4 feet and Watson won the tournament. , On April 3, 2011, Mickelson won the Shell Houston Open with a 20-under-par, three-stroke win over Scott Verplank . Mickelson rose to No. 3 in the world ranking, while Tiger Woods fell to No. 7. Mickelson had not been ranked above Woods since the week prior to the 1997 Masters Tournament . , At the 2011 Open Championship , Mickelson recorded just his second top-ten finish in 18 tournaments by tying for second with Dustin Johnson . His front nine 30 put him briefly in a tie for the lead with eventual champion Darren Clarke . However, some putting problems caused him to fade from contention toward the end, to finish in a tie for second place. , Mickelson made his debut for the year at the Humana Challenge and finished tied for 49th. He missed the cut at the Farmers Insurance Open after shooting rounds of 77 and 68. In the final round of the 2012 AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am Mickelson rallied from six shots back, winning the tournament by two strokes with a final round score of 8-under 64 and a four round total of 269.  The win marked his 40th career victory on the PGA Tour. The following week at Riviera Country Club , Mickelson lost the Northern Trust Open in a three-way playoff.  He had held the lead or a share of it from day one until the back nine on Sunday when Bill Haas posted the clubhouse lead at seven under par. Mickelson holed a 27-foot birdie putt on the final regulation hole to force a playoff alongside Haas and Keegan Bradley . Haas however won the playoff with a 40-foot birdie putt on the second playoff hole. The second-place finish moved Mickelson back into the world's top 10.  , Mickelson finished tied for third at the 2012 Masters Tournament . After opening the tournament with a two-over-par 74, he shot 68-66 in the next two rounds and ended up one behind the leader Peter Hanson by the Saturday night. Mickelson had a poor start to his fourth round, scoring a triple-bogey when he hit his ball far to the left of the green on the par-3 4th hole, hitting the stand and landing in a bamboo plant. This ended up being Mickelson's only score over par in the whole round, and he ended with a score of eight-under overall. Earlier in the tournament he had received widespread praise for being present to watch Jack Nicklaus , Arnold Palmer , and Gary Player hit the ceremonial opening tee-shots, nearly seven hours before Mickelson's own tee time.  , Mickelson made a charge during the final round at the HP Byron Nelson Championship , but bogeyed the 17th and 18th, finishing T-7th. He then withdrew from the Memorial Tournament , citing mental fatigue, after a first round 79. He was to be paired with Tiger Woods and Bubba Watson at the U.S. Open. He fought to make the cut in the U.S. Open, and finished T-65th. After taking a couple of weeks off, he played the Greenbrier Classic . Putting problems meant a second straight missed cut at the Greenbrier and a third missed cut at The Open Championship , shooting 73-78 (11 over par). He finished T-43rd at the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational . He then finished T-36th at the PGA Championship . , To start the 2012 FedEx Cup Playoffs , Mickelson finished T38 at The Barclays , +1 for the tournament. He tied with Tiger Woods , Zach Johnson , and five other players. In this tournament, he started using the claw putting grip on the greens.  At the next event, the Deutsche Bank Championship , he finished the tournament with a −14, tied for 4th with Dustin Johnson .  At the BMW Championship , Mickelson posted a −16 for the first three rounds, one of those rounds being a −8, 64. On the final day, Mickelson shot a −2, 70, to finish tied for 2nd, with Lee Westwood , two shots behind leader, and back-to-back winner, Rory McIlroy .  At the Tour Championship , he ended up finishing tied for 15th.  He went on to have a 3–1 record at the Ryder Cup ; however, the USA team lost the event. , Mickelson began the 2013 season by playing in the Humana Challenge in January, where he finished T37 at −17.  His next event was the following week in his home event near San Diego at the Farmers Insurance Open . Mickelson endured a disappointing tournament, finishing T51, shooting all four rounds in the 70's. , In the first round of the Waste Management Phoenix Open , Mickelson tied his career low round of 60. He made seven birdies in his first nine holes and needed a birdie on the 18th hole to equal the PGA Tour record of 59. However, his 25-foot birdie putt on the final hole lipped out, resulting in him missing out by a single shot on making only the sixth round of 59 in PGA Tour history. Mickelson led the tournament wire-to-wire and completed a four shot win over Brandt Snedeker for his 41st PGA Tour victory and 3rd Phoenix Open title. Mickelson's score of 28-under-par tied Mark Calcavecchia's tournament scoring record.  He also moved back inside the world's top 10 after falling down as far as number 22. , At the 2013 U.S. Open , Mickelson entered the final round leading by one stroke after rounds of 67-72-70 (−1) over the first three days, but he started the final round poorly, three putting the 3rd and 5th holes for double-bogeys to fall out of the lead. He regained the lead at the 10th, when he holed his second shot from the rough for an unlikely eagle two. However a misjudgment at the short par three 13th, saw him fly the green and make a bogey to slip one behind leader Justin Rose . Another bogey followed at the 15th, before narrowly missing a birdie putt on the 16th that would have tied Rose. Mickelson could not find a birdie at the 17th and after a blocked drive on the 18th, could not hole his pitch from short of the green which led to a final bogey. , Mickelson ended up finishing tied for second with Jason Day , two strokes behind Justin Rose. It was the sixth runner-up finish of Mickelson's career at the U.S. Open, an event record and only behind Jack Nicklaus 's seven runner-up finishes at The Open Championship .  After the event, Mickelson called the loss heartbreaking and said "this is tough to swallow after coming so close ... I felt like this was as good an opportunity I could ask for and to not get it ... it hurts."  It was also Father's Day, which happened to be his birthday. , The week before the 2013 Open Championship, Mickelson warmed up for the event by winning his first tournament on British soil at the Aberdeen Asset Management Scottish Open on July 14, after a sudden-death playoff against Branden Grace . After his Scottish Open victory, Mickelson spoke of his confidence ahead of his participation in the following week's major championship. Mickelson said: "I've never felt more excited going into The Open. I don't think there's a better way to get ready for a major than playing well the week before and getting into contention. Coming out on top just gives me more confidence."  , The following week, on July 21, Mickelson won his fifth professional major title at the Open Championship (often referred to as the British Open) at Muirfield Golf Links in Scotland , the oldest of the four major championships in professional golf. This is the first time in history that anyone has won both the Scottish Open and The Open Championship in the same year.  Mickelson birdied four of the last six holes in a brilliant final round of 66 to win the title by three strokes.  He shed tears on the final green after completing his round. Mickelson later said: "I played arguably the best round of my career, and shot the round of my life. The range of emotions I feel are as far apart as possible after losing the U.S. Open. But you have to be resilient in this game."  , Mickelson struggled in 2014, missing the cut at the Masters for the first time since 1997. He failed to contend at the U.S. Open at Pinehurst in his first bid to complete the career grand slam. Mickelson's lone top-10 of the PGA Tour season came at the year's final major, the PGA Championship at Valhalla Golf Club . Mickelson shot rounds of 69-67-67-66 to finish solo second, one shot behind world number one Rory McIlroy . , Prior to the 2015 Masters , Mickelson's best finish in 2015 was a tie for 17th. At the 2015 Masters, Mickelson shot rounds of 70-68-67-69 to finish tied for second with Justin Rose , four shots behind champion Jordan Spieth . The second-place finish was Mickelson's 10th such finish in a major, placing him second all time only to Jack Nicklaus in that regard. , As a professional competitor, Mickelson's playing style is described by many as "aggressive" and highly social.    His strategy toward difficult shots (bad lies, obstructions) would tend to be considered risky.  , Mickelson has also been characterized by his powerful and sometimes inaccurate driver , but his excellent short game draws the most positive reviews, most of all his daring "Phil flop " shot in which a big swing with a high-lofted wedge against a tight lie flies a ball high into the air for a short distance.  , Mickelson is usually in the top 10 in scoring, and he led the PGA Tour in birdie average as recently as 2013. His playing style wins 8% of his Tour starts, along with top 25s in well over half and top 10s in a third.  , Although ranked second on the PGA Tour's all-time money list  of tournament prize money won, Mickelson earns far more from endorsements than from prize money. According to one estimate  of 2011 earnings (comprising salary, winnings, bonuses, endorsements and appearances) Mickelson was then the second-highest paid athlete in the United States, earning an income of over $62 million, $53 million of which came from endorsements. Major companies which Mickelson currently endorses are KPMG , ExxonMobil (Mickelson and wife Amy started a teacher sponsorship fund with the company), Rolex , Barclays , and Callaway Golf . He has been previously sponsored by Titleist , Bearing Point and Ford . After being diagnosed with psoriatic arthritis in 2010, Mickelson was treated with Enbrel and began endorsing the drug. , On May 30, 2014, The Wall Street Journal reported that the FBI and SEC were investigating Mickelson and associates of his for insider trading in Clorox stock.   Mickelson denied any wrongdoing,  and the investigation found ″no evidence″ and concluded without any charges.  , PGA Tour playoff record (7–4) , European Tour playoff record (2–1) , Results not in chronological order prior to 2015. , * As of the 2013–14 season. , † Mickelson won as an amateur in 1991 and therefore did not receive any prize money. , Amateur , Professional , Equipment is accurate as of the Farmers Insurance Open (February 4, 2015).  Theodore Ernest "Ernie" Els ( / ˈ ɛ l s / ; born 17 October 1969) is a South African professional golfer. A former World No. 1 , he is known as "The Big Easy" due to his imposing physical stature (he stands 6 ft 3 in (1.91 m)) along with his fluid golf swing. Among his 67 career victories are four major championships : the U.S. Open in 1994 at Oakmont and in 1997 at Congressional , and The Open Championship in 2002 at Muirfield and in 2012 at Royal Lytham & St Annes .  He is one of six golfers to twice win both the U.S. Open and The Open Championship. , Other highlights in Els' career include topping the 2003 and 2004 European Tour Order of Merit (money list), and winning the World Match Play Championship a record seven times. He was the leading career money winner on the European Tour until overtaken by Lee Westwood in 2011, and was the first member of the tour to earn over 25 million Euros from European Tour events. He has held the number one spot in the Official World Golf Ranking and until 2013 held the record for weeks ranked in the top ten with 788.   Els rose to 15th in the world rankings after winning the 2012 Open Championship . He was elected to the World Golf Hall of Fame in 2010, on his first time on the ballot, and was inducted in May 2011.  , When not playing, Els has a golf course design business, a charitable foundation which supports golf among underprivileged youngsters in South Africa, and a highly regarded wine-making business. He has written a popular golf instructional column in Golf Digest magazine for several years. , , , Growing up just east of Johannesburg in Kempton Park , South Africa, he played rugby union , cricket , tennis, and, starting at age 8, golf. He was a skilled junior tennis player and won the Eastern Transvaal Junior Championships at age 13. Els first learned the game of golf from his father Neels, a trucking executive, at the Kempton Park Country Club. He was soon playing better than his father (and his older brother, Dirk), and by the age of 14 he was a scratch handicap. It was around this time that he decided to focus exclusively on golf. , Els first achieved prominence in 1984, when he won the Junior World Golf Championship in the Boys 13–14 category. Phil Mickelson was second to Els that year. Els won the South African Amateur Championship a few months after his 17th birthday, becoming the youngest-ever winner of that event, breaking the record which had been held by Gary Player . , Els married his wife Liezl in 1998 in Cape Town and they have two children, Samantha and Ben. In 2008 after Els started to display an " Autism Speaks " logo on his golf bag it was announced that their then five-year-old son was autistic .  Their main residence is at the Wentworth Estate near Wentworth Golf Club in the south of England. However, they also split time between South Africa and their family home in Jupiter, Florida , in order to get better treatment for Ben's autism.  , In 1989, Els won the South African Amateur Stroke Play Championship and turned professional the same year. Els won his first professional tournament in 1991 on the Southern Africa Tour (today the Sunshine Tour ). He won the Sunshine Tour Order of Merit in the 1991/92 and 1994/95 seasons. In 1993, Els won his first tournament outside of South Africa at the Dunlop Phoenix in Japan. In 1994 Els won his first major championship at the U.S. Open . Els was tied with Colin Montgomerie and Loren Roberts after 72 holes and they went to an 18-hole playoff the next day. In spite of starting the playoff bogey-triple bogey,  Els was able to match Roberts' score of 74. Els birdied the second hole of sudden death to win his first U.S. Open title. , Els brought his game all around the world in his young career winning the Dubai Desert Classic on the European Tour, and the Toyota World Match Play Championship defeating once again Colin Montgomerie 4 & 2. The following year, Els defended his World Match Play Championship, defeating Steve Elkington 3 & 1. Els won the GTE Byron Nelson Classic in the United States then headed back home to South Africa and won twice more. In 1996, Els won his third straight World Match Play Championship at Wentworth, defeating Vijay Singh in the final 3 & 2. No player in history had ever managed to win three successive titles in the one-on-one tournament.  Els finished the year with a win at his home tournament at the South African Open. , 1997 was a career year for Els first winning his second U.S. Open (once again over Colin Montgomerie) this time at Congressional Country Club , making him the first foreign player since Alex Smith (1906, 1910) to win the U.S. Open twice. He defended his Buick Classic title and added the Johnnie Walker Classic to his list of victories. Els nearly won the World Match Play Championship for a fourth consecutive year, but lost to Vijay Singh in the final. 1998 and 1999 continued to be successful years for Els with 4 wins on both the PGA and European tours. , 2000 started in historic fashion for Els being given a special honour by the Board of Directors of the European Tour awarding him with honorary life membership of the European Tour because of his two U.S. Opens and three World Match Play titles. 2000 was the year of runner ups for Els; with three runner up finishes in the Majors (Masters, U.S. Open and The Open Championship) and seven second-place finishes in tournaments worldwide. Els had a disappointing 2001 season, failing to win a US PGA tour event for the first time since 1994 although he ended the year with nine second-place finishes. , 2002 was arguably Els's best year which started with a win at the Heineken Classic at the Royal Melbourne Golf Club . Then went to America and outplayed World Number one Tiger Woods to lift the Genuity Championship title. The premier moment of the season was surely his Open Championship triumph in very tough conditions at Muirfield . Els overcame a four-man playoff to take home the famous Claret Jug trophy for the first time, also quieting his critics about his mental toughness. The South African also won his fourth World Match Play title, along with his third Nedbank Challenge in the last four years dominating a world class field winning by 8 shots. , 2003 gave Els his first European Tour Order of Merit . Although playing fewer events than his competitors Els won four times and had three runner ups. He also performed well in the United States with back to back victories at the Mercedes Championship - where he set the all time PGA Tour 72 hole record for most strokes under par at 31 under - and Sony Open and achieved top 20 spots in all four majors including a fifth-place finish at the U.S Open and sixth-place finishes at both the Masters and PGA Championship. To top off the season Els won the World Match Play title for a record-tying fifth time. In 2003 he was voted 37th on the SABC3's Great South Africans . , 2004 was another successful year as Els won 6 times on both tours including big wins at Memorial, WGC-American Express Championship and his sixth World Match Play Championship, a new record. His success did not stop there. Els showed remarkable consistency in the Majors but lost to Phil Mickelson in the Masters when Mickelson birdied the 18th for the title, finished ninth in the U.S. Open after playing in the final group with friend and fellow countryman Retief Goosen and surprisingly lost in a playoff in the Open to the then unknown Todd Hamilton . Els had a 14-foot (4.3 m) putt for birdie on the final hole of regulation for the Open at Royal Troon, but he missed the putt and lost in the playoff. Els ended the major season with a fourth-place finish in the PGA Championship, where a three putt on the 72nd hole would cost him a place in the playoff. In total, Els had 16 top-10 finishes, a second European Order of Merit title in succession and a second-place finish on the United States money list. , 2004 was the start of the "Big Five Era", which is used in describing the era in golf where Tiger Woods , Vijay Singh , Ernie Els, Retief Goosen and Phil Mickelson dominated the game of golf. The five switched up and down the top five positions in the World Golf Ranking ; most notably Vijay Singh's derailment of Tiger Woods as the best golfer in the world. The five stayed, for the most part, in the top five spots from 2004 until the start of 2007. Nine majors were won between them, many fighting against each other head to head. , In July 2005, Els injured his left knee while sailing with his family in the Mediterranean. Despite missing several months of the 2005 season due to the injury, Els won the second event on his return, the Dunhill Championship . , At the start of the 2007 season Ernie Els laid out a three-year battle plan to challenge Tiger Woods as world number one. "I see 2007 as the start of a three-year plan where I totally re-dedicate myself to the game,"  Els told his official website. , When he missed the cut by two strokes at the 2007 Masters Tournament , Els ended tour-leading consecutive cut streaks on both the PGA Tour and the European Tour. On the PGA Tour, his streak began at the 2004 The Players Championship (46 events) and on the European Tour it began at the 2000 Johnnie Walker Classic (82 events) , Els has often been compared to Greg Norman in the sense that both men’s careers could be looked back on and think what could have been. Although the two of them are multiple major championship winners they have both shared disappointment in majors. Their disappointments have ranged from nerves, bad luck and simply being outplayed. 1996 was the year where Norman collapsed in the Masters and Els in the PGA Championship . Els has finished runner-up in six majors. He has finished runner-up to Tiger Woods more than any other golfer and has often been described as having the right game to finally be the golfer to beat Woods in a major. , On 2 March 2008, Els won the Honda Classic contested at PGA National's Championship Course in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida . Els shot a final round 67 in tough windy conditions, which was enough to give him the win by one stroke over Luke Donald . The win marked the end of a three and a half-year-long stretch without a win on the PGA Tour for Els. The win was his 16th PGA Tour victory of his career. , On 8 April 2008, Els officially announced that he was switching swing coaches from David Leadbetter (whom Els had worked with since 1990) to Butch Harmon who has revamped the golf swings of many established pros (which started with Greg Norman). During Els 2008 Masters press conference Els said the change is in an effort to tighten his swing, shorten his swing, and get a fresh perspective. , On 8 November 2009, Els almost ended his year-long slump by shooting a course-tying record 9-under 63 in the final round of the WGC-HSBC Champions to finish at 16-under par 272, a stroke back of Phil Mickelson who finished with a 17-under 271 total including a final round of 3-under 69. , Els finally did break his winless streak by capturing the WGC-CA Championship at Doral in 2010, winning by four strokes over fellow countryman Charl Schwartzel .  It was Els's second WGC tournament title. The victory also saw Els overtake Colin Montgomerie to become the career money leader on the European Tour. Els then won the Arnold Palmer Invitational at Bay Hill two weeks later. It was his 18th PGA Tour victory, and his second in as many starts.  , Ernie continued his 2010 success with a T3 at the 2010 U.S. Open at Pebble Beach Golf Links . He got a 2nd place in 2000 which was also at Pebble Beach.  , Els most recently tasted success at the PGA Grand Slam of Golf in October 2010. After opening the 36 hole event with a round of 68 he fended off the challenge of David Toms with a final day 69 to win the four-man tournament by one stroke, capturing $600,000 in the process. In December 2010, Els won the South African Open beating Retief Goosen by one shot.  , Els had an inauspicious season in 2011 , dropping out of the top 50 in the Official World Golf Ranking for the first time since 1993.  , Els started the 2012 season in his home country at the Volvo Golf Champions where he finished in a tie for second place after he and Retief Goosen lost out in a playoff to Branden Grace . Els and Goosen could only manage pars on the first playoff hole, while Grace two-putted the par-five green for birdie and victory. Els was next in contention at the Transitions Championship , where he needed a win to qualify for the 2012 Masters, led the tournament for most of the final round and had the lead outright until the 16th hole. However he finished the tournament bogey-bogey missing a short three footer on the last hole to make the playoff. The tournament was eventually won by Luke Donald in a four-man playoff. , In 2012, Els failed to qualify for the Masters, the first time since 1993 that he would not play at Augusta. He was ranked 58th in the world prior to the tournament (the top 50 are given automatic invitations). , Els won the 2012 Open Championship , making a birdie on the last hole. Adam Scott led by four shots after a birdie at the 14th hole, but bogeyed the final four holes to miss a playoff with Els by one stroke.  Els earned $1,405,890 for the major win, and among other benefits, exemptions for five years to the other three majors.  Els became the eighth player to win major tournaments in three different decades, joining his countryman Gary Player , Jack Nicklaus , Lee Trevino , Billy Casper , Raymond Floyd , John Henry Taylor and Harry Vardon .  , In June 2013, Els won for the first time, since his 2012 Open Championship victory, at the BMW International Open in Munich , Germany . He claimed a wire-to-wire victory with a one stroke win over Thomas Bjørn . Els started the tournament with an opening round of 63 to take control and followed this with two 69s in rounds two and three. However he entered the final round tied with Alexander Levy and Alexander Norén . He was overtaken during the final round by both Levy and Bjørn, but Els responded with three birdies in four holes mid-round to move back to the top. As Levy and Bjørn made mistakes coming home, Els played the back nine in level par to complete victory and claim his 28th European Tour title. Els moved up to 14th from 20th in the world rankings and moved to 4th in the Race to Dubai standings.  , Els has struggled to find his form through the 2014 season. He finished 4th at the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship in February, 5th at The Barclays and 7th at the PGA Championship , but has struggled with missed cuts including a missed cut at the Masters Tournament in April. Els has begun to use the short putter again in competition in preparation for the rule change in 2016.  , Els is also responsible for the refinement and modernisation of the West Course, Wentworth-Virginia Water, England, which took place in 2006. , Courses under construction include: , Unlike most of his contemporaries, Els is known for his willingness to participate in tournaments all around the world, having played regularly in European Tour-sanctioned events in Asia, Australasia, and his native country of South Africa. He says that his globe-trotting schedule is in recognition of the global nature of golf. This has caused some friction with the PGA Tour , an organisation that would prefer Els to play more tournaments in the United States. In late 2004, Tim Finchem , the director of the PGA Tour, wrote quite a firm letter to Els asking him to do so, but Els publicised and rejected this request. The PGA Tour's attitude caused considerable offence in the golfing world outside of North America. , The Ernie Els and Fancourt Foundation was established in 1999. It has the objective of identifying youths who show talent and potential in the game of golf from under-privileged backgrounds. It provides educational assistance amongst other moral and financial help in order for these youths to reach their full potential. , The first Friendship Cup was played in 2006 which is a match play competition, played in a Ryder Cup type format. In the cup, Els's foundation plays against the foundation of Tiger Woods . Els's foundation won 12.5 points to 3.5 points. , Els has also participated several times in the Gary Player Invitational series of charity golf events, to assist Player raise significant funds for underprivileged children around the world. , Since his son's autism diagnosis, Els and his wife have been active in charities devoted to that condition. This involvement has increased as Ben has reached school age. In 2009, Els launched an annual charity golf event, the Els for Autism Pro-Am, held at the PGA National Resort & Spa in Palm Beach Gardens near his South Florida residence during the PGA Tour's March swing into the area. The first event, which featured many PGA Tour and Champions Tour golfers, raised $725,000 for The Renaissance Learning Center, a nonprofit charter school in the area for autistic children. The couple has also established the Els Center of Excellence, which began as a drive to build a new campus for the aforementioned school but has since mushroomed into a $30 million plan to combine the school with a research facility.  , On his technique: ,  , —Els on his son's autism: ,  , PGA Tour playoff record (4–4) , European Tour playoff record (2–5) , 1 Co-sanctioned by the European Tour , * As of 23 November 2014. , These figures are from the respective tour's official sites. Note that there is double counting of money earned (and wins) in the majors and World Golf Championships since they became official events on both tours. , Professional , Player in bold denotes current number one  James Michael Furyk (born May 12, 1970) is an American professional golfer who plays on the PGA Tour . In 2010 he was the FedEx Cup champion and PGA Tour Player of the Year .  He has won one major championship , the 2003 U.S. Open . , In September 2006 he reached a career high of second in the Official World Golf Ranking .  He ranked in the top-10 for over 380 weeks between 1999 and 2015.   , , , Furyk was born in West Chester, Pennsylvania . His father, Mike, was an assistant pro at the Edgmont Country Club and later also spent time as a pro at West Chester Golf and Country Club as well as Hidden Springs Golf Course in Horsham . His early years were spent in the Pittsburgh suburbs learning the game from his father, who was head pro at Uniontown Country Club. He graduated from Manheim Township High School in Lancaster County in 1988, where he played basketball in addition to being a state champion golfer. He played his junior golf at Meadia Heights Golf Club just south of Lancaster city. He played college golf at the University of Arizona in Tucson , where he was an All-American twice, and led the Wildcats to their first (and only) NCAA title in 1992.  , Furyk turned professional in 1992. He won the NIKE Mississippi Gulf Coast Classic on the Nike Tour in 1993. He joined the PGA Tour in 1994 and won at least one tournament each year between 1998 and 2003 . At the time, this was the second-best streak of winning seasons behind Tiger Woods and he made the top ten in the Official World Golf Ranking . Furyk's biggest win to date came on June 16, 2003, when he tied the record for the lowest 72-hole score in U.S. Open history to win his first major championship .  , In 2004 , he only played in fourteen events after missing three months due to surgery to repair cartilage damage in his wrist; he missed six cuts and his highest finish was T6, which caused him to fall out of the top hundred on the money list. He returned to good form in 2005 and regained his top ten ranking, winning a PGA Tour event in that year and two in 2006 . In the 2006 season, he finished a career-high second on the money list and won the Vardon Trophy for the first time. He also had 13 top-10 finishes, including nine top-3s, four second-place finishes, and two victories.   , The 2010 season was a banner one for Furyk. After going more than two seasons winless, he won a career-best three tournaments on Tour in 2010: The Transitions Championship , the Verizon Heritage , and the season-ending Tour Championship . His victory in the Tour Championship also earned him the 2010 FedEx Cup after winning by one stroke.  His accomplishments in 2010 won him both the PGA Player of the Year  and PGA Tour Player of the Year for the first time.  , Since 2012, Furyk has come close on several occasions to winning more titles. At the 2012 U.S. Open , Furyk led after 54 holes and was still the leader deep into the final day, before snap hooking his drive into the trees at the 16th which led to a bogey and was followed by another at the 18th. He finished in a tie for fourth, two strokes behind Webb Simpson . At the 2012 WGC-Bridgestone Invitational , Furyk led after the first three rounds and looked set to win the championship as he held a one-stroke lead going into the final hole, but a double-bogey cost him the title to Keegan Bradley .  At the 2013 PGA Championship , Furyk led by one stroke going into the final day over Jason Dufner , but this time his lead was overturned on the front nine and he was unable to reduce the deficit as Dufner won by two strokes. Furyk's caddy since 1999 has been Mike "Fluff" Cowan , who was Tiger Woods ' caddy for Woods' first two years as a professional.  , On September 13, 2013, Furyk shot a 12-under-par 59 in the second round of the BMW Championship at Conway Farms Golf Club in Lake Forest, Illinois , becoming just the sixth player to shoot 59 in a PGA Tour event.  , In July 2014, Furyk held the 54-hole lead at the RBC Canadian Open , with a three stroke advantage over his nearest competitor Tim Clark . However Clark produced five birdies in his last eight holes to claim the title, after Furyk missed a 12 footer on the 18th green to force a playoff. The three shot margin was the largest 54-hole lead Furyk has ever lost in his tour career. [ citation needed ] , In February 2015, Furyk held a one shot lead at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am going into the final round, but shot a two over round of 74 to finish six strokes behind Brandt Snedeker . Furyk's round was the worst of any player to finish within the top 50 on the final day. Since Furyk's last victory at The Tour Championship in 2010, he is 0-for-9 with a lead/co-lead after 54 holes.  On April 19, 2015, Furyk ended the long slump when he defeated Kevin Kisner with birdie on the second playoff hole at the RBC Heritage . The victory was his second at the event and his 17th victory on the PGA Tour . , As Mike Furyk describes in a Golf Digest issue in 2001, Jim Furyk's hips "underturn" during the backswing and "overturn" coming down. On the downswing, he draws the club in a large arc behind his body (viewing from his right hand side), then pastes his elbow against his right hip at impact. Golf commentator Gary McCord has said it looks like Furyk is trying to swing inside a phone booth. Another commentator David Feherty memorably described Furyk's swing as "an octopus falling out of a tree". Others have noted it reminds them of "a one-armed golfer using an axe to kill a snake in a telephone booth."  , PGA Tour playoff record (4–8) , Results not in chronological order prior to 2015. , *As of the 2013–14 season. , Professional  David Robert Duval (born November 9, 1971) is an American professional golfer and former World No. 1 Golfer who competed on the PGA Tour . Duval, originally from Jacksonville Florida, received his PGA Tour card in 1995, earning it after becoming two-time ACC Player of the Year, 1993 National Player of the Year, and playing two years on the Nike Tour (where he won twice). Duval won 13 PGA Tour tournaments between 1997 and 2001. He won his sole major title at The Open Championship in 2001 . After that point, due to injuries and medical conditions, his win record dropped dramatically culminating in the loss of his tour card in 2011. After his professional golf career slowed, he became an analyst and commentator. , , , Duval was born in Jacksonville, Florida , the son of golf instructor and club professional Bob Duval and Diane Poole Duval, a member of the FSU Flying High Circus during college.  His brother Brent was two years older, and sister Diedre was five years younger.  During his early years, his father was club professional at Timuquana Country Club , where he learned to play golf under his father's guidance. , When David was nine, his brother Brent developed aplastic anemia . The family sought treatment at Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital in Cleveland , Ohio, where David underwent surgery to donate bone marrow. Unfortunately, the transplant was not successful, and Brent died as a result of septicemia on May 17, 1981 at age 12. Bob Duval was unable to cope, and moved out of the family home for a year. Counseling enabled him to reunite with his wife and children in 1982, and David continued to receive golf instruction from his father.  In 1993, just as Duval was starting his professional golf career, his father again moved out of the family home, this time permanently.  , He graduated from the Episcopal High School of Jacksonville in 1989, the same year he was the U.S. Junior Amateur champion. He continued his amateur career for the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets men's golf team, where he was a four-time first-team All-American, two-time ACC Player of the Year, and 1993 National Player of the Year. While in college, he led an official PGA Tour event, the BellSouth Classic (which he would win as a professional), after three rounds.   , After two years on the Nike Tour where he won twice, he earned his PGA Tour card in 1995. Success came quickly, as Duval posted seven second place finishes on the PGA Tour from 1995 to 1997, qualifying for the 1996 Presidents Cup and posting a 4–0–0 record for the victorious American team. But a PGA Tour victory eluded him until he won the Michelob Championship at Kingsmill in October 1997, and winning his next two tournaments in the same month, including the 1997 Tour Championship . , Duval led the PGA Tour money list in 1998, and also won the Vardon Trophy and Byron Nelson Award for lowest scoring average. He ended second on the 1997 and 1999 money lists, seventh in 2000 and eight in 2001. From 1997 to 2001, he won 13 PGA Tour tournaments, including the 1997 Tour Championship, the 1999 Players Championship , and the 2001 Open Championship , as well as the 2001 Dunlop Phoenix on the Japan Golf Tour and the 2000 World Cup (with Tiger Woods ) internationally. He also tied for second in both the 1998 and 2001 Masters . Duval's winning speech at the 2001 Open was welcomed by British commentators as "delightfully modest and heartfelt".  , Other career highlights include achieving the number one spot in the Official World Golf Ranking in April 1999 and shooting a 59 in the final round of the 1999 Bob Hope Chrysler Classic on the Palmer Course at PGA West in La Quinta, California . Duval made an eagle on the final hole to win the tournament by one shot. Before 1999, only two other golfers in PGA Tour history, Al Geiberger and Chip Beck , had posted a 59 in competition and no one had ever done so in a final round.  When he won the Players Championship he became the first player in history to win on the same day as his father, Bob Duval , who won a Champions Tour event that same day.  He also played on the victorious 1999 Ryder Cup team, as well as the 2002 team. , After his Open Championship win, Duval entered a downward spiral in form that saw him drop to 80th on the money list in 2002 , and 211th in 2003 , prompting an extended break from the game. Numerous reasons have been postulated for the decline, including back, wrist, and shoulder problems; private difficulties; and a form of vertigo . Duval has not won a tournament on the PGA Tour since his Open Championship victory in 2001. His last worldwide win was the Dunlop Phoenix Tournament in November 2001, on his 30th birthday. His 30s proved to be much less lucrative on the golf course.  , Many commentators believed Duval's career to be over, but he returned to golf at the U.S. Open in 2004 , where he shot 25 over par and missed the cut. Duval struggled with his best results until 2009 being a T-13 at the Deutsche Bank Championship in 2004 and a T-16 at the U.S. Open in 2006 . He made the cut in only one PGA Tour event in 2005 , but did finish in the top ten at the Dunlop Phoenix tournament in Japan. While Duval at his peak was viewed as aloof and distant and was not a fan favorite, now galleries sympathize with his plight and root for him to overcome his issues and to enjoy playing golf.  , Duval had a successful start to the 2006 season, making the cut in his first two tournaments, as well as a very respectable finish of T-16 at the U.S. Open at Winged Foot Golf Club, where his second round 68 was good enough for a tie as the best round of the tournament. Despite not reaching the same heights in the remaining two majors of the year, his performances continued a general upward trend, with none of the rounds of 80+ that had become so familiar in the previous years. , After a steady start to 2007 during the West Coast Swing, Duval once again disappeared from the tour. His mother died on July 17,  and he later revealed that his wife was going through a difficult pregnancy. This prompted the PGA Tour to amend its medical exemption policies – and Duval was granted twenty starts for the next season. , After a lackluster first half of the following year, Duval inexplicably reappeared on the leaderboard of the British Open , rekindling memories of his major victory. He shot 73-69-83-71 for the week and finished T-39.  , In 2009 , Duval used his final career money exemption on the PGA Tour. He made his first cut at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am in February. However, he stormed back onto the golf scene with a T-2 finish at the U.S. Open at Bethpage Black. After going through sectional qualifying, Duval made the most of his first appearance in the U.S. Open since 2006. Going into the final round, Duval was four shots behind eventual winner Lucas Glover . Duval made a triple bogey at the par three 3rd hole, but rebounded with three straight birdies from 14 to 16. He stood on the tee of the 71st hole in a tie for the lead, but his par putt lipped out on the hole, and he finished tied for second, two shots behind Glover. It was his best finish on tour since the 2002 Memorial Tournament . After the Open, Duval jumped 740 spots in the Official World Golf Ranking from 882 to 142.   , Duval failed to earn his PGA Tour card for the 2010 season, so he had to play on sponsor's exemptions. He showed more signs of a come-back by shooting a final round 69 to finish 2nd to defending champion Dustin Johnson at the 2010 AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am . Duval had a good 2010 season and retained his tour card at the end of the year. , The 2011 season was a struggle for Duval, when he made only nine cuts in 24 events and lost his Tour card after finishing outside 150th on the tour money list. He went to Q School in an attempt to regain his tour card, but finished T72 in the final round. For 2012 , Duval had past champion status. After seven unsuccessful starts, Duval made his first cut of the season at the Valero Texas Open, and finished T60. It was announced on June 13 that he would be an analyst for ESPN for the first two rounds of the U.S. Open , having failed to qualify for the 2nd major of the season.   , In December 2013, Duval announced via his Twitter that the 2014 PGA Tour season would be the last season he would ask for sponsor exemptions to get into tournament fields. Many people took this as a possible retirement announcement, but Duval clarified to say that he wants to earn his way back on the Tour rather than depending on others.   In April 2014, Duval finished tied for 25th (−8) at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans . , In addition to playing in tournaments, Duval has helped commentate The Open Championship  and U.S. Open .  In 2015, Duval joined the Golf Channel as a studio analyst. , Duval split with his girlfriend Julie McArthur in early 2002 after being together for eight years.   , He met Susan Persichitte in August 2003 at a Denver restaurant while in town for The International tournament. They were engaged in November  and married in 2004. They have two children together: Brady, born in 2005; and Sienna, born in 2008. She has custody of her three older children from a prior marriage: Deano, Nick, and Shalene Karavites. Their home is in Cherry Hills Village, Colorado , a suburb south of Denver.  , this list may be incomplete , PGA Tour playoff record (2–2) , 1 Defeated Teshima with birdie on first extra hole , * As of March 8, 2015 , Amateur , Professional , Player in bold denotes current number one  David Wayne Toms (born January 4, 1967) is an American professional golfer who plays on the PGA Tour . He has won a total of 13 events on the PGA Tour, including the 2001 PGA Championship . He was in the top 10 of the Official World Golf Ranking for 175 weeks between 2001 and 2006,  and ranked as high as fifth in 2002 and 2003. , , , Toms was born in Monroe  in northeastern Louisiana . He is the son of Thomas E. "Buster" Toms of Minden in northwestern Louisiana. He won the 15-17 Boys' event at the 1984 Junior World Golf Championships . Toms also played little league baseball with future Major League Baseball players Albert Belle and Ben McDonald .   After graduating from Airline High School in Bossier City, Louisiana , he attended Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge ,  where he was a member of the golf team.  , In 1991, Toms finished T23 at the PGA Tour qualifying school to earn his first full tour card for the 1992 season. Toms made his first three cuts on tour including a third-place finish at the Northern Telecom Open , although this was the only top 10 he would earn all season. The following season was also a struggle for Toms as he made just 12 of 32 cuts for the season, of which three were top-10 finishes. In 1994, Toms' lack of success continued on the PGA Tour and he lost his playing rights for the 1995 season. , In 1995, Toms played the entire season on the Nike Tour (now Web.com Tour) with greater success, winning two tournaments, the Greater Greenville Classic and the Wichita Open. This success earned Toms his PGA Tour card for the 1996 season. , Upon his return to the PGA Tour in 1996, Toms had a disappointing season with just two top 10s. However, he did manage to qualify for his first major championship of his career at the 1996 U.S. Open, where he missed the cut. , In 1997, Toms won his first PGA Tour event at the Quad City Classic , winning by three strokes over Brandel Chamblee . He followed this success in the 1998 season with a runner-up finish at the Tucson Chrysler Classic . At his first visit to Augusta National , he recorded his best finish in a major championship at the time with a T-6 at the Masters . In his defense of the Quad City Classic title, Toms finished fourth. , In 1999, Toms enjoyed seven top-10 finishes on the PGA Tour. In September, he won his second title at the Sprint International , by three strokes over David Duval . Toms almost added another title the following week when he narrowly missed out at the Reno-Tahoe Open , finishing in T-2 behind Notah Begay III . Toms did, however, win his third PGA Tour title a month later at the Buick Challenge , defeating Stuart Appleby by three strokes. , In 2000, Toms made 26 of 31 cuts, including a tie for fourth at The Open Championship . He won the Michelob Championship at Kingsmill , defeating Canadian Mike Weir in a sudden-death playoff, giving Toms his fourth Tour victory. , The standout year of Toms' career came in 2001. He had nine top-10 finishes and three wins on tour, one of which was his first major championship .  Toms won the Compaq Classic of New Orleans by two strokes over Phil Mickelson for his fifth PGA Tour title. That summer, Toms won a major, the PGA Championship, by one stroke over Mickelson. His winning score of 265 in the 2001 PGA Championship is the lowest absolute 72-hole score ever recorded in a major championship.  Toms followed up his first major win by successfully defending his title at the Michelob Championship at Kingsmill. At the last event of the year, Toms entered a four-man playoff at The Tour Championship where he, Sergio García and Ernie Els lost on the first extra hole to Mike Weir . , In 2002, Toms lost in a playoff at the season opening Mercedes Championship to García when the Spaniard made birdie on the first extra hole. He did record a further 12 top-10 finishes with runner -up finishes at the MasterCard Colonial and the Buick Challenge followed by a sole third-place finish at The Tour Championship. , Toms finished runner-up at the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship in 2003 to Tiger Woods , losing 2&1, and also finished tied for eighth at The Masters. At the Wachovia Championship , he won his eighth PGA Tour title, by two strokes over Robert Gamez , and then recorded his best showing ever at the U.S. Open , finishing T-5. A few weeks later, Toms won his ninth PGA Tour title at the FedEx St. Jude Classic by three strokes over Nick Price . , In 2004, he defended his FedEx St. Jude Classic by finishing six strokes clear of American Bob Estes for his 10th victory on the PGA Tour. Despite this win, Toms endured a steady yet unspectacular season earning over 2.3 million dollars. , Toms enjoyed a much better start to the 2005 season in which he had top-10 finishes in five of his first seven events, including a win at the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship to record his first World Golf Championship victory. He defeated fellow American Chris DiMarco 6&5 in the 36-hole final on Sunday for his 11th PGA Tour win. Along the way, Toms defeated notables including Phil Mickelson , Adam Scott and Ian Poulter . Later in the season, he almost defended his FedEx St. Jude Classic title for a third successive year but finished one stroke behind Justin Leonard . , Early in 2006, Toms won his 12th PGA Tour title at the Sony Open in Hawaii , finishing five strokes ahead of Chad Campbell and Rory Sabbatini . He followed up this early season form with a T-2 finish at the Ford Championship at Doral behind Tiger Woods and then a T-3 finish a week later at The Honda Classic . Toms' form dipped during the rest of season, only recording a further two top-10 finishes. , In 2007, Toms had solid season with a succession of top-10 finishes, most notably a ninth-place finish at The Masters and an equal-best T-5 at the U.S. Open. Toms made just over $2 million in prize money and finished 33rd in the FedEx Cup standings. , Toms struggled during the 2008 season with injuries that forced him to miss large parts of the season and underperform. He only participated in 20 events during the season with only one top 10. He finished the season 136th on the FedEx Cup standings, making just under $800,000. , Toms enjoyed a much better season in 2009, with three runner-up finishes at the Sony Open in Hawaii , St. Jude Classic and the Travelers Championship amongst four other top-10 finishes. This form earned Toms a place in the season-ending The Tour Championship . He would finish 19th in the FedEx Cup standings with earnings over $3 million. , In 2010, Toms had just two top-10 finishes, his best placing coming at the Wyndham Championship where he finished in second place, one stroke behind winner Arjun Atwal . Toms made it to the third FedEx Cup playoff event the BMW Championship but did not make it into the top 30 to advance and eventually finished the season 55th in the standings. , Toms started the 2011 season well with a T-5 at the Mayakoba Golf Classic at Riviera Maya-Cancun and a T-3 at the Arnold Palmer Invitational . Toms then came close to his first PGA Tour win in five years at The Players Championship where he eventually lost on the first extra hole to South Korean K. J. Choi . This came despite leading the tournament for the majority of rounds two, three and four. Toms held the lead for the entire final round until he reached the par five 16th hole where he found the water with his second shot. This enabled Choi to take a one shot lead down the 18th hole; however Toms would make a birdie to Choi's par to take the event into a sudden-death playoff. At the first extra hole, the 17th, both players found the green with their tee shots. They would both go on to run their birdie attempts past the hole, but Toms would also see his par putt lip out from four feet, allowing Choi to make a three-foot putt for the victory.  , Toms bounced back the week after his playoff loss to win the Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial by one shot over Charlie Wi . Toms tied the PGA Tour scoring record for 36 holes after shooting a pair of 8-under-par 62s for a seven shot lead at the halfway stage. Toms' lead disappeared after a third round 74 when he trailed Wi by one stroke entering the final round. However, in the final round he shot a 67, which included a holed-out eagle from the fairway on the 11th hole for a one stroke victory.  This was Toms' first win in over five years on the PGA Tour. The win guaranteed Toms a place in the U.S. Open and moved him up to 28th in the Official World Golf Ranking. , In June 2012, Toms recorded his best-ever performance in a U.S. Open when he finished T-4. Toms had been one of the co-leaders after 36 holes at one under par alongside fellow Americans Tiger Woods and Jim Furyk , but his challenge fell apart on day three when he found himself five over for his first six holes on his way to a 76. Toms did perform well on Sunday with a two-under round of 68, but fell short by two strokes. , Toms owns a golf course design business, which he describes as what he plans to do after his playing days are over. His early works, all in Louisiana, were as a player-consultant, and in renovation and redesign of existing courses.  The first course for which he was the lead designer was Carter Plantation in Springfield, Louisiana .   , In 2003, Toms created the David Toms Foundation for the purpose of helping underprivileged, abused and abandoned children. Grants are made to programs that are designed to bolster a child's self-esteem, and help him or her develop into a productive citizen. His foundation raised more than $1.5 million for Hurricane Katrina relief. For his efforts, Toms shared the 2006 Golf Writers Association of America's Charlie Bennett Award with fellow Louisianans Kelly Gibson and Hal Sutton .  , Toms currently resides in Shreveport in northwestern Louisiana. He and wife, Sonya, have two children, Carter and Anna. , PGA Tour playoff record (1–3) , Professional  Justin Charles Garrett Leonard (born June 15, 1972) is an American professional golfer . , Leonard was born and raised in Dallas, Texas . He attended Lake Highlands High School and graduated in 1990. He attended the University of Texas at Austin and was the individual NCAA champion in 1994. He won the 1992 U.S. Amateur and was a two-time All-American in 1993 and 1994. He won the Haskins Award in 1994 as the most outstanding collegiate golfer. That same year Leonard became only the fourth golfer to go directly from college to the PGA Tour without going through Q School , after Gary Hallberg , Scott Verplank , and Phil Mickelson . , Leonard's wins on the PGA Tour included one of golf's four majors , the 1997 Open Championship , as well as the 1998 Players Championship . He ranked in the top 10 of the Official World Golf Ranking for 24 weeks in 1998 and 1999.  Leonard also had opportunities to win other major championships, notably at the 1999 Open Championship and the 2004 PGA Championship ; in both instances he fell into a playoff with a bogey on the 72nd hole. , At the 1997 PGA Championship , Leonard was tied with Davis Love III for the 54-hole lead. Love shot a final round 66 to win by five shots over Leonard, who finished solo second. Leonard was ahead by three shots at the 54-hole mark of the 2002 PGA Championship before shooting a final round 77 and finishing tied for fourth. , Leonard qualified for the United States Ryder Cup team in 1997, 1999, and 2008. In the 1999 event, Leonard made a 45-foot putt for birdie on the 17th hole to complete a remarkable comeback by the U.S. team on the final day. The victory was somewhat marred by the celebration following Leonard's putt, when other U.S. players, their wives, and a few fans ran onto the green even though Leonard's opponent, José María Olazábal , still had an opportunity to match Leonard on the hole. , , , PGA Tour playoff record (2–5) , Amateur , Professional  Steven Charles Stricker (born February 23, 1967) is an American professional golfer who plays on the PGA Tour . He has won 12 tournaments on the PGA Tour including the 2001 WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship and two FedEx Cup playoff events. His most successful season on tour came in 2009, when he had three tournament victories and finished second on the money list. He has ranked as high as No 2 in the Official World Golf Ranking .  He spent 57 consecutive weeks in the world top-10 in 2007 and 2008 and was there for a further 157 consecutive weeks from 2009 to 2012.   , , , Stricker was born in Edgerton, Wisconsin . He grew up playing golf at both Lake Ripley Country Club in nearby Cambridge and at the Edgerton Towne Country Club in Edgerton. A 1990 graduate of the University of Illinois , Stricker earned All-American honors as a member of the golf team in 1988 and 1989.   , Stricker turned professional in 1990,  and began his career on the Canadian Professional Golf Tour , where he won two tournaments. He joined the PGA Tour in 1994. His first success at the top level came in 1996, when Stricker notched two victories ( Kemper Open , Motorola Western Open ) and seven top ten finishes on his way to finishing fourth on the 1996 PGA Tour money list. , In 1998, Stricker played himself into contention in the final round of the PGA Championship at Sahalee Country Club in Redmond, Washington . Thanks to a back-nine surge, PGA Tour veteran Vijay Singh bested Stricker down the stretch and claimed a two-stroke victory. This runner-up finish remains Stricker's best result in a major championship to date. However his most consistent major championship in his career has been the U.S. Open . Stricker has finished inside the top-20 six times at the U.S. Open , with his best finish a fifth-place in the 1999 U.S. Open at Pinehurst No. 2 . Stricker won his third and most prestigious PGA Tour title at the 2001 WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship , where he defeated Pierre Fulke 2 and 1 in Australia , to earn the $1,000,000 prize. This was the one and only occasion that the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship was played outside of the United States. , Thereafter Stricker went through a slump, and lost his tour card in 2004 after several years of poor form. In 2006, relying on sponsor exemptions, he managed seven top-10 finishes and was voted PGA Tour Comeback Player of the Year. His renewed form continued throughout 2007 and he won his fourth PGA Tour title at The Barclays tournament on August 26, 2007, ending an 11-year victory drought on American soil, although he had previously triumphed down in Australia in 2001. This run of success earned him a spot in the 2007 Presidents Cup team. After his victory at The Barclays, which was the first of the four FedEx Cup playoff events, Stricker reached No. 4 in the Official World Golf Ranking , his highest career ranking at that point. Stricker finished runner-up in the 2007 FedEx Cup Playoffs behind Tiger Woods . Again, he was selected as PGA Tour Comeback Player of the Year. He was also inducted into the Wisconsin State Golf Association Hall of Fame in 2007. , At the Mercedes Benz Championship , the opening event of the 2008 season, Stricker lost out in a play-off to Daniel Chopra . This result took Stricker to No. 3 in the Official World Golf Ranking, again at the time his highest ranking to date. , In the 2009 Bob Hope Classic , Stricker shot third and fourth round scores of 61 and 62, at the PGA West Palmer and Nicklaus courses, to set the 36-hole scoring record on the PGA Tour at 123, beating a record that Pat Perez had held for only two days. (This record would fall in October when Troy Matteson shot 61-61=122 at the Frys.com Open .) His four-round total of 33-under-par in the five-round event also set the PGA Tour record for lowest score relative to par for 72 holes, exceeding Ernie Els' total of 31 under par in the 2003 Mercedes-Benz Championship at Kapalua. The third-round 61 was Stricker's best score on Tour to that point. He shot a 77 in the final round, however, and ended up finishing in a tie for third. , Stricker won his fifth PGA Tour title at the 2009 Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial at the end of May with a playoff win over Tim Clark and Steve Marino . This win was made possible by a crucial 60-foot chip-in on the 71st hole of the championship.  , Stricker won again in 2009 at the John Deere Classic in Silvis, Illinois for his sixth career victory on the PGA. After the second round was rained-out on Friday, the field was forced to play 36 holes on Sunday. Stricker shot an afternoon round of 64, which included a hole-out wedge shot for eagle on the 6th hole. He went on to win the event by three strokes over Zach Johnson , Brandt Snedeker and Brett Quigley . He also matched his career low round on tour with a second round of 61 (−10).  , Stricker's third win of 2009 and seventh overall came in September at the Deutsche Bank Championship , the second of four playoff events. He began the final round tied with Retief Goosen and Sean O'Hair , and birdied the final hole to win the event by one stroke over Jason Dufner and Scott Verplank . It was Stricker's second FedEx Cup playoff win, a win that also vaulted him ahead of Tiger Woods to the top of the FedEx Cup standings and vaulted him to No. 2 in the Official World Golf Ranking , his highest ranking achieved during his career.  Stricker has been called "Mr. September" due to his success in the FedEx Cup playoffs, where he has never finished outside the top-25 in his ten career starts. , In February 2010, Stricker won his eighth PGA Tour title at the 2010 Northern Trust Open after shooting a final round 70, which was enough for a 16-under-par 268 winning total. With this win, he deposed Phil Mickelson and regained his ranking as World No. 2.  , In July 2010, Stricker shot a career-low 60 (−11) in the first round of the John Deere Classic at TPC at Deere Run in Silvis, Illinois .  However, a 59 shot by Paul Goydos incredibly put him one stroke back of the lead. He followed with rounds of 66 and 62, for a total of 188, to set the PGA Tour 's 54-hole scoring record.  He would then shoot 70 on Sunday to win by two strokes over Goydos and earn his ninth PGA Tour win. , In June 2011, Stricker added another prestigious title to his career resume with a victory at the 2011 Memorial Tournament . This was the tenth PGA Tour title of his career.  Stricker opened the tournament with a 4 under round of 68 and bettered this on day two with a 67, however this was made special by the hole-in-one he recorded at the par three 8th hole to hold a three stroke advantage at the halfway stage. Remarkably he then opened round three with two eagles in the first five holes to open up a six shot lead midway through round three, but some uncharacteristic mistakes on the back nine saw him fall back towards the rest of the field. He held on to the 36-hole lead to eventually win by one stroke over Matt Kuchar and Brandt Jobe . With this victory Stricker became the highest-ranked American in the Official World Golf Ranking at No. 4 in the world. For the first time in his career, Stricker was ranked higher than all other American golfers, including Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson . Stricker played the tournament at −20 for the front nine, a record by 6 shots, versus +4 for the back nine. , Stricker won his second tournament of 2011 and 11th overall on the PGA Tour at the John Deere Classic . He beat Kyle Stanley by one stroke after holing a 30 foot birdie putt at the 72nd hole of regulation play. Stricker had been in a commanding position throughout most of Sunday's round, however he bogeyed the 15th and 16th to fall two strokes behind Stanley. He then bounced back with a birdie on the par five 17th while Stanley made bogey on the 18th. Stricker, tied for the lead at this point, drove into a fairway bunker off the tee and then played his second shot just over the back of the green, but would hole the putt from the fringe for the victory.  This was Stricker's third straight victory at the John Deere Classic becoming just the 10th golfer since World War II to win a tournament three straight times. , Stricker, who is considered one of the best players without a major championship , shot a major championship record 63 in the first round at the 2011 PGA Championship and led by 2 shots after 1 round. However he faded away on the last 3 days shooting rounds of 74-69-73 and ended up in a T12. Stricker's career earnings are over $40 million, highest of those without a major championship win. , Stricker started the 2012 season with a win at the season-opening Hyundai Tournament of Champions at Kapalua, Hawaii. He shot a 10 under par round of 63 on day two and held the lead until the very end, winning by three strokes over Martin Laird . It was his twelfth PGA Tour title.  Stricker missed the cut at the 2012 Players Championship , his first since the 2009 PGA Championship . It ended a streak of 49 consecutive cuts, which was the longest on the PGA Tour.  , At the start of the 2013 season, Stricker announced he would cut his schedule "in half" in 2013, hoping to play just "10 or 12" tournaments.  As the defending champion, he finished runner-up at the Hyundai Tournament of Champions despite suffering from a herniated disc. He then reached the quarterfinals at the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship , his best performance since he won the tournament in 2001. , Stricker married into a golfing family. His father-in-law, Dennis Tiziani, and his brother-in-law, Mario Tiziani, both played on the PGA Tour. His wife, Nicki, is frequently his caddie.  , PGA Tour playoff record (1–1) , * As of the 2013–14 season. , Professional , As of the 2012 Hyundai Tournament of Champions   Zachary Harris Johnson (born February 24, 1976) is an American professional golfer who has 11 victories on the PGA Tour , including one major championship , the 2007 Masters . , , , The son of a chiropractor , Johnson was born in Iowa City, Iowa and raised in Cedar Rapids ,  the oldest of Dave and Julie Johnson's three children. Playing many sports as a youth ( baseball , basketball , football , and soccer ), Johnson took up golf at age 10 and developed his skills at Elmcrest Country Club. He played number-two on the Regis High School golf team and led them to an Iowa 3A state championship in 1992, his sophomore year. , Following graduation from high school in 1994, Johnson enrolled at Drake University in Des Moines . As the number-two player on the Drake golf team, he led the Bulldogs to three NCAA regional meets and two Missouri Valley championships. Johnson's uncle, Tom Harris, qualified for the 1975 NAIA national tournament. , Johnson turned professional in 1998 and played on the developmental tour circuit, including the now-defunct Prairie Golf Tour , the Buy.com Tour (later the Nationwide Tour and Web.com Tour), and the Hooters Tour , where he won the final three regular-season events in 2001. In 2003, he topped the money list on the Nationwide Tour with then record earnings of $494,882, earning an automatic promotion to the PGA Tour . , Johnson won his first PGA Tour event at the 2004 BellSouth Classic outside of Atlanta when he finished one stroke ahead of Mark Hensby . In 2006, Johnson recorded a number of impressive results including two runner-up places and finishing third at the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship . As a result of this, he qualified for the U.S. Ryder Cup team for the first time in 2006, finishing 9th on the U.S. points list. , On April 8, 2007, Johnson won his first major title at the Masters Tournament in Augusta by a margin of two strokes over Tiger Woods , Retief Goosen , and Rory Sabbatini . Johnson's score of 289 (+1) tied Sam Snead (1954) and Jack Burke Jr. (1956) for the highest winning score at the Masters. His victory took him from #56 to #15 in the world rankings ; he was the first outside the top 50 in the world rankings to win the Masters in the history of the rankings. After winning, he mentioned his Christian faith and thanked God, saying: "This being Easter , I cannot help but believe my Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ was walking with me. I owe this to Him."  , Six weeks after winning the Masters, Johnson won for the third time on tour at the 2007 AT&T Classic in a playoff over Ryuji Imada . Following the win, Johnson moved to a career-best 13th in the world rankings. His next PGA Tour victory, and first outside the state of Georgia , came at the 2008 Valero Texas Open , where he finished with rounds of 62 and 64 over the weekend to finish two strokes ahead of a chasing pack of players. , Johnson won the Sony Open in Hawaii in January 2009 for his fifth victory on the PGA Tour, and successfully defended his title at the Valero Texas Open in May with a playoff victory over James Driscoll .  With a third-round 60, Johnson became the first player to shoot 60 twice on the PGA Tour, having done so previously at the 2007 Tour Championship . The win was Johnson's sixth on tour. Other highlights in 2009 include a tie for 2nd place at the John Deere Classic and a solo 3rd place finish at the Arnold Palmer Invitational . He finished the season ranked a career best fourth on the money list. , In 2010, Johnson started the season solidly on the PGA Tour, making ten of his first eleven cuts without any significant results. Then in June 2010, Johnson won the Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial , his seventh PGA Tour victory. Johnson only missed two cuts all year en route to qualifying for the season ending Tour Championship and the 2010 U.S. Ryder Cup team, his second appearance in the event.  , In 2012, Johnson won the Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial for the second time in his career. He made a five foot putt on the last hole for what appeared to be a three shot victory, but a ruling on the final hole resulted in a two-stroke penalty. Fortunately, it did not affect the outcome of the tournament, with the only difference being Johnson signing for a 6 instead of a 4 on the final hole, with Johnson winning by a single stroke over Jason Dufner .  He jumped to 3rd in the FedEx Cup standings and returned to the world top 20 with this victory. , Johnson moved to second in the FedEx Cup standings with a playoff win on July 15, 2012, at the John Deere Classic .  Johnson defeated Troy Matteson , who started the day up four shots on Johnson and had led the tournament since the first round,  with a birdie on the second hole of their playoff. Johnson also started the day behind three-time defending champion Steve Stricker , who was three shots behind Matteson. It was Johnson's second win on the year after winning at Colonial Country Club.  Mike Bender, Johnson's swing coach, also caddied for the week while usual caddie Damon Green played in the U.S. Senior Open .  , At the 2012 Open Championship , played at Royal Lytham & St Annes Golf Club in Lancashire, England, Johnson finished at even par for the tournament (280), tied for ninth, seven shots behind winner Ernie Els .  , In 2013, Johnson, in defense of his John Deere Classic title, lost in a three-man sudden-death playoff to Jordan Spieth at the fifth extra hole, after he bogeyed the final hole of regulation play with a one shot lead. In the playoff, all three players, Johnson, Spieth and David Hearn , had chances to win with Johnson's coming at the second extra hole, but he failed to convert the putt. Spieth won with par at the fifth extra hole after Johnson hit his second shot into the water and could only make bogey. , The following week, Johnson opened up the 2013 Open Championship at Muirfield , with a five-under-par round of 66 to hold the lead by one stroke over Rafael Cabrera-Bello and Mark O'Meara . He finished the tournament in a tie for 6th place, which is his best result to date at The Open Championship. , He continued solid play for the rest of the summer, finishing in the top-10 in six of the next seven tournaments he would enter, including an 8th place finish at the PGA Championship , making it back to back top-10 finishes at major events. In September, Johnson captured the BMW Championship for his tenth career victory and first FedEx Cup victory of his career. , In December 2013, Johnson attained a playoff victory over Tiger Woods at the Northwestern Mutual World Challenge .  This win moved him into the top ten of the Official World Golf Ranking for the first time in his career. , Johnson captured his 11th career victory in January 2014 with a win at the Hyundai Tournament of Champions .  With the win, Johnson moved up to a career high 7th in the Official World Golf Ranking . , At the 2014 U.S. Open , Johnson had a hole in one on the 172 yard par-3 9th hole. It was the 44th hole in one in U.S. Open history, and just the second at Pinehurst No. 2 .  , Johnson is one of only two players (the other being Phil Mickelson ) to have twice shot a round of 60 on the PGA Tour.  , Johnson and his wife, the former Kim Barclay, were members of First Baptist Church in Orlando.  Johnson was raised a Catholic , but joined his wife's church prior to their marriage in 2003. They have two sons, Will and Wyatt, and one daughter, Abby Jane. They lived in Lake Mary, Florida and now reside in St. Simons, Georgia .  , On Johnson's official website he states that he has created a non-profit organization, The Zach Johnson Foundation, dedicated to helping children and their families in Cedar Rapids, Iowa . One program created by Johnson and his wife Kim helped to raise $700,000 for community agencies serving children in need. He has stated: "This Foundation will fulfill a dream of mine and Kim's to give back to Cedar Rapids in a long-lasting, meaningful way."  , On September 4, 2007, Johnson led the singing of " Take Me Out To The Ballgame " during the seventh-inning stretch of the Chicago Cubs baseball game at Wrigley Field . [ citation needed ] , PGA Tour playoff record (3–1) , 1 Defeated Haskins with birdie on first extra hole. , Results not in chronological order prior to 2015. , * As of 2013–14 season (September 14, 2014). , Professional  Rory McIlroy ,   MBE (born 4 May 1989) is a Northern Irish professional golfer from Holywood in County Down who is a member of both the European and PGA Tours .  He is the current World Number One and a four-time major champion , winning the 2011 U.S Open with a tournament record lowest score under par (−16), 2012 PGA Championship with a tournament record eight strokes victory margin, 2014 Open Championship , and 2014 PGA Championship . He is the first European to win three different majors, and with Jack Nicklaus and Tiger Woods is one of three to win three majors by the age of 25. , He had a successful amateur career, topping the World Amateur Golf Ranking for one week as a 17-year-old in 2007. Later that year he turned professional and soon established himself on the European Tour . He had his first win on the European Tour in 2009 , and on the PGA Tour in 2010 . In 2011 at the age of 22, he became the youngest player ever to reach € 10 million in career earnings on the European Tour. In 2012 , he became the youngest player to reach $ 10 million in career earnings on the PGA Tour. , McIlroy has represented Europe, Great Britain & Ireland, and Ireland as both an amateur and a professional. At the Ryder Cup , he played for Europe against the United States in 2010 , 2012 and 2014 , with Europe winning all three matches. For his individual and team achievements he has twice been named RTÉ Sports Person of the Year , in 2011 and 2014. , , , Born in Holywood , County Down, Northern Ireland, McIlroy is the only child of Rosie (née McDonald) and Gerry McIlroy. He attended St. Patrick's Primary School  and then Sullivan Upper School .  , He was introduced to golf at an exceptionally young age by his father, who coached him.  Gerry McIlroy is a fine golfer himself, who once played at a scratch handicap level.  He asked his father virtually every day to take him to Holywood Golf course. Family lore relates that he received a new golf club as a present, being shown the correct grip by his father, then taking the club to bed with him that night, with his hands holding the club properly. McIlroy joined Holywood Golf Club and became the youngest member at the club. A video on golf technique produced by champion Nick Faldo was his early favourite.  , McIlroy's father held down several jobs to earn additional income for his son's golf development. His mother worked extra shifts at the local 3M plant.  McIlroy's first significant international victory came in the World Championship for the 9–10 age group bracket at the Doral Golf Resort & Spa in Miami, Florida .   He learned his early golf at the Holywood Golf Club, which he still retains as his home course.  He became the youngest club member at age seven.  He started his early training with Michael Bannon , previously the Golf Professional of Holywood Golf Club, who is also his current coach and dedicated mentor .  , At the age of 15, McIlroy was a member of Europe's winning 2004 Junior Ryder Cup team; the event was held in Ohio .  In 2005, McIlroy became the youngest-ever winner of both the West of Ireland Championship and the Irish Close Championship.  He retained the West of Ireland Championship in 2006 and followed that up with back-to-back wins at the Irish Close Championship.  In August 2006, he won the European Amateur at Biella Golf Club, near Milan , Italy, with the score of 274.  , In late 2004, at age 15, he signed a letter of intent to play collegiate golf at East Tennessee State University , but after his wins in 2005, he decided to forgo the golf scholarship and continue to play amateur golf in Europe.  McIlroy shot a bogie-free opening round of 3-under-par 68 at the 2007 Open Championship at Carnoustie , his first major championship entry. He shot +5 overall and was the highest finishing amateur, winning the silver medal.  , In July 2005, at age 16, McIlroy shot a new competitive course record score of 61 on the Dunluce links of Royal Portrush Golf Club .  In October 2006, McIlroy represented Ireland in the Eisenhower Trophy , which is the Amateur World Team Championship. On 6 February 2007, he became the second man to top the World Amateur Golf Ranking , though he lost the top spot after just one week.  , McIlroy was part of the Great Britain & Ireland team at the 2007 Walker Cup , held at the Royal County Down Golf Club .  On the first day of the event he was paired with Jonathan Caldwell for morning foursomes, and the match was halved. In the afternoon he faced Billy Horschel in singles, but Horschel won 1 up. On the second day McIlroy and Caldwell lost in morning foursomes by the score of 2 & 1. In the afternoon he faced Horschel in singles again, and this time he won by the score of 1 up. McIlroy's overall record was (1–2–1) in Win-Loss-Tie format. The United States came out victorious by a score of 12½ to 11½.  , McIlroy made his first appearance in a European Tour event a few days after turning 16, when he took part in the 2005 British Masters . He made the cut on the European Tour for the first time as a 17-year-old at the 2007 Dubai Desert Classic , where he had to forego prize money of over €7,600 due to his amateur status.  At the 2007 Open Championship , held at Carnoustie , McIlroy was awarded The Silver Medal as the leading amateur. , McIlroy turned professional on 18 September 2007, the day before the Quinn Direct British Masters . He signed with International Sports Management .  At the Quinn Direct British Masters , McIlroy shot 290 (+2), which put him in a tie for 42nd place.  He finished in 3rd place at the Alfred Dunhill Links Championship in October. The next week, he secured his card for 2008 by finishing in a tie for 4th place at the Open de Madrid Valle Romano .  He became the youngest Affiliate Member in the history of The European Tour to earn a tour card.  On the 2007 European Tour season, he earned €277,255 and finished in 95th place on the Order of Merit list. He was the highest ranked associate member.  , Before his season started, Tiger Woods invited McIlroy to play in the 2007 Target World Challenge , held in December, and the 2008 AT&T National , held in July. McIlroy declined the invitation, preferring to play the European Open the week of the AT&T National.  , McIlroy started his 2008 European Tour season at the UBS Hong Kong Open . He did not make the one-under cut.  He entered the top 200 of the Official World Golf Ranking for the first time on 27 January 2008.  On 7 September 2008, McIlroy took a four-stroke lead into the final round of the Omega European Masters in Crans-sur-Sierre , Switzerland, but finished in a tie for first place with Frenchman Jean-François Lucquin and lost in a play-off.  , McIlroy finished the Europen Tour season in November 2008 with six top-10 placements and ranked 79th in the World Golf Ranking.  , After finishing second in the UBS Hong Kong Open in November 2008,  McIlroy attained his highest world ranking position of 50.  He finished the 2008 calendar year at 39th in the world rankings after finishing joint 3rd in the South African Open .  This earned him an invitation to the 2009 Masters Tournament . His first professional win came at age 19 when he won the Dubai Desert Classic on 1 February 2009, this win took him to 16th in the world rankings.  , In the 2009 WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship , McIlroy reached the quarterfinals. In the first round he defeated Louis Oosthuizen 2 & 1, in the second round he beat Hunter Mahan 1-up, and in the third round he beat Tim Clark , 4 & 3. He lost to Geoff Ogilvy , who won the tournament, in the quarterfinals 2 & 1.  McIlroy continued to play on the PGA Tour until May. He finished tied for 13th at the Honda Classic , tied for 20th at the WGC-CA Championship and tied for 19th at the Shell Houston Open .  , In April 2009, McIlroy made his first Masters Tournament appearance, his first major championship as a professional. He finished the tournament tied for 20th place, two strokes under par for the tournament. Of the players to make the cut, McIlroy achieved the third highest average driving distance, beaten only by Dustin Johnson and Andrés Romero .  McIlroy played in two more events on the PGA Tour after the Masters Tournament including his first appearance at The Players Championship , where he missed the cut.  , McIlroy then returned to Europe and recorded two top-25 finishes leading up to his first U.S. Open . He finished fifth at the BMW PGA Championship and 12th at the European Open .  McIlroy played in his second major as a professional at the 2009 U.S. Open . His final round of 68 (−2) helped him finish in a tie for 10th, his first top-10 finish in a major. The following week, McIlroy finished in 15th place at the BMW International Open .  McIlroy played in his first Open Championship as a professional in July and finished T-47.  He finished T-3 at the 2009 PGA Championship .  , McIlroy finished the 2009 season ranked second on the Race to Dubai , behind Lee Westwood , and in November he entered the top 10 of the world rankings for the first time.  McIlroy finished 2009 ranked 9th in the world.  In November 2009, McIlroy announced that he would join the American-based PGA Tour for the 2010 season.  , McIlroy accepted an invitation from Gary Player to participate in the 2009 Nedbank Golf Challenge at the Gary Player Country Club at Sun City, South Africa in December, but withdrew after feeling unwell.  , McIlroy finished 3rd at the 2010 Abu Dhabi Golf Championship . As defending champion at the 2010 Dubai Desert Classic , McIlroy shot a final round of 73 to finish in a tie for fifth place.  , In the 2010 WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship , McIlroy beat Kevin Na 1-up in the first round and then lost on a playoff hole to Oliver Wilson . After the Accenture Match Play Championship, McIlroy took time off from golf due to a sore back.  After a two-week break McIlroy returned in the 2010 Honda Classic and finished in a tie for 40th.  , On 2 May, McIlroy recorded his first PGA Tour win after shooting 62 in the final round of the Quail Hollow Championship . The round set a new course record, and concluded with six consecutive scores of three.  He became the first player since Tiger Woods to win a PGA Tour event prior to his 21st birthday.  The win earned him a two-year Tour exemption.  On 2 June, McIlroy played in the Memorial Skins Game at Muirfield Village Golf Club in Dublin, Ohio .  McIlroy finished tied for 10th place at that same week's Memorial Tournament.  , On 15 July 2010, McIlroy confirmed his status as a favourite for the Open title on the Old Course at St Andrews by shooting a 9-under-par 63 on the opening day, the lowest-ever first round score in the 150-year history of the Open Championship, and tying the course record.  He missed a 5-foot birdie putt on the 17th, "The Road Hole", which would have given him the outright record.  His tied third finish in the 2010 Open Championship sent him to a career high world ranking of seventh.   , McIlroy missed out on a chance to win the 2010 PGA Championship when he three-putted the 15th green to fall out of a tie for the lead.  His final-hole birdie putt narrowly missed the hole to leave him one stroke out of the playoff between Bubba Watson and eventual winner Martin Kaymer . McIlroy finished tied for third.  On 4 October 2010, McIlroy won a crucial half-point to help Europe regain the Ryder Cup .  , Following the Ryder Cup, he announced in November that he would return to play full-time on the European Tour, although he also stated that he would continue to play 11 or 12 tournaments in the US per year. He attributed the decision to having closer friends on the European Tour, his part in the Ryder Cup victory, and wanting to be nearer his girlfriend and family.  , McIlroy later stated that he regretted his 2010 decision to give up his PGA Tour card, and his skipping the 2010 Players Championship at TPC Sawgrass. McIlroy's manager Chubby Chandler 's aversion to the PGA Tour was cited by McIlroy as one of the main reasons for their later professional split.  , On 7 April, McIlroy shot a bogey-free 7-under-par 65 in the first round of the Masters Tournament in Augusta, Georgia to take the lead after the first day of the four-day competition.  At the time, he was the youngest player to lead the Masters Tournament at the close of the first day.  On Friday, he shot 69 to lead by two strokes over Jason Day with a 10-under-par score. On Saturday, he shot 70 to finish at 12-under-par, four strokes ahead of four other challengers. However, on the fourth and final day, he shot the worst round in history by any professional golfer leading after the third round of the Masters Tournament.  McIlroy scored one-over-par 37 on the first nine, and still had the lead, but shot a round of 80, finishing T15 at 4-under for the tournament.  , McIlroy failed to make the cut in his title defense at Quail Hollow in early May, was well off the pace at the BMW PGA Championship .  He held the 18 hole lead at the Memorial Tournament but finished in 5th place.  , McIlroy won the U.S. Open held at Congressional in Bethesda, Maryland on 19 June winning by eight strokes over Jason Day . McIlroy set several records in his victory, most notably, his 72-hole aggregate score of 268 (16-under) was a new U.S. Open record. The 268 aggregate beat the previous record of 272 held by Jack Nicklaus ( Baltusrol , 1980), Lee Janzen (Baltusrol, 1993), Tiger Woods ( Pebble Beach , 2000), and Jim Furyk ( Olympia Fields , 2003).  The 16-under in relation to par beat Tiger Woods' 12 under at Pebble Beach Golf Links in 2000.    He became the youngest winner since Bobby Jones in 1923 . The victory lifted McIlroy's position in the Official World Golf Ranking to a then career high of number four.  , In preparation for the U.S. Open, McIlroy practised at Pine Valley Golf Club in New Jersey , rather than at Congressional, but did play two practice rounds at Congressional about a week before the start of the Open, after returning from a two-day trip to Haiti as an ambassador for UNICEF .   , On 17 June during the second round, McIlroy became the first player in the history of the tournament to reach a score of 13-under-par at any point in the tournament. He achieved the feat by making birdie at the 17th hole in the second round. Despite a double bogey on the final hole, his two-day total of 131 (65-66, 11-under-par) set a record as the lowest 36-hole total in U.S. Open history.  The score was one better than Ricky Barnes ' 132 in 2009. He was also the fastest golfer to reach double digits under par in the U.S. Open, reaching 10 under par in 26 holes.  , On 18 June, during the U.S. Open's third round, he became the first player to reach 14-under par at the tournament by making a birdie at the 15th hole, on his way to a 54-hole U.S. Open record of 199.  In doing so, he also built an eight-stroke lead going into the final round. A final round of 69 allowed him to claim his first major championship setting the 72-hole record.  , McIlroy took a month off from competitive golf.  At The Open Championship he struggled in tough weather over a difficult layout at Royal St George's Golf Club , failing to contend with the conditions.  He was again a non-factor at the PGA Championship at Atlanta Athletic Club after injuring his wrist on the 3rd hole of the first round after attempting to play a stroke from behind a tree root.  McIlroy went on to win the Lake Malaren Shanghai Masters in a playoff against Anthony Kim.  In November, he finished tied for 4th at the WGC-HSBC Champions to move to a then career high of number two in the Official World Golf Ranking. In December 2011, he won the UBS Hong Kong Open by two strokes.  , McIlroy's first tournament of the year was at the Abu Dhabi HSBC Golf Championship during the desert swing of the European Tour at the end of January. The tournament was in the spotlight due to its high profile field including Tiger Woods , Luke Donald and Lee Westwood . McIlroy played alongside Woods and Donald in the marquee group during the first two days. McIlroy shot rounds of 67-72-68 to start round 4 in joint 3rd place behind joint leaders Robert Rock and Tiger Woods . He shot a 3-under-par 69 on Sunday to finish lone second, one stroke behind winner Robert Rock . , At the Omega Dubai Desert Classic McIlroy finished tied 5th on 14-under-par, four strokes behind winner Rafael Cabrera-Bello . He continued to play well at the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship in Arizona where he won matches against George Coetzee , Anders Hanson , Miguel Ángel Jiménez , Bae Sang-moon and Lee Westwood before losing to Hunter Mahan in the final. After 10 holes in the final match, McIlroy was 4 down to Mahan, but cut the deficit to 2 down through 16 holes. The 17th hole was halved with pars, securing the win for Mahan. There was anticipation surrounding the semi-final match between McIlroy and Westwood, as the winner would become the number one golfer in the world if they also won the final. McIlroy's runner-up finish moved him up to number two in the world while also putting him at the top of the Race to Dubai leaderboard. , The following week, McIlroy continued good form and won the Honda Classic in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida , and with it claimed the Number 1 spot in the world rankings.  He started the fourth round in first place at 11-under-par after rounds of 66-67-66, ahead of a chasing pack including Tiger Woods , Lee Westwood and Keegan Bradley . McIlroy shot a final round of 69 to claim his third PGA Tour title and finished two strokes ahead of Tiger Woods and Tom Gillis . McIlroy became the second youngest World Number 1 and moved up to fourth place in the FedEx Cup standings.  , McIlroy played the following week at the WGC-Cadillac Championship in Miami, Florida . His recent good form began to dwindle slightly on Thursday, when he shot a 1-over par 73. However, he shot 69 and 65 the next two days to begin the fourth round in tied 8th place. Going into the back 9 on Sunday, he had a chance of winning his second title of 2012 in as many weeks due to the leaders faltering. However two late bogeys halted his chance and he settled for 3rd place, two strokes behind winner Justin Rose . , McIlroy lost his number one ranking on 18 March to Luke Donald after Donald won the Transitions Championship . McIlroy was one stroke off of the lead going into the weekend at The Masters but struggled in his last two rounds and finished in a tie for 40th. He regained the top spot in the world rankings on 15 April but lost it to Donald again on 29 April. On 6 May, McIlroy was in contention at the Wells Fargo Championship and went to a playoff with Rickie Fowler and D. A. Points . Fowler won the tournament on the first playoff hole with a birdie. The runner-up finish put McIlroy back at the top of the Official World Golf Ranking.  After the runner-up finish, McIlroy would later miss the cut in his next three events, and fell again from number one ranking. , McIlroy won the 2012 PGA Championship by a record eight strokes, which was done with a birdie on the final hole.    The record stood since Jack Nicklaus won the 1980 PGA Championship by seven strokes.    McIlroy started the final round with a three stroke lead and shot a bogey free 66 to run away from the field. With this win, McIlroy became the youngest multiple major champion since Seve Ballesteros won the 1980 Masters Tournament, and the sixth youngest of all time. The win also helped McIlroy regain the world number one ranking. , McIlroy finished the regular season third in the FedEx Cup standings. At The Barclays , the first of four playoff events, he finished in a tie for 24th, dropping him to fourth in the standings. McIlroy won the following week at the Deutsche Bank Championship to take the top spot in the standings. McIlroy entered the final round three strokes behind Louis Oosthuizen and defeated him by one stroke.  The win also put McIlroy at the top of the PGA Tour money list. McIlroy's success continued the following week when he won the BMW Championship .  He was 40-under par for his two playoff tournament victories.  With the win, he became the first European to win four PGA Tour events in a single season and the only person other than Tiger Woods to win four events in a season since 2005. , Following Europe's victory in the Ryder Cup, McIlroy turned his attention to winning the Race to Dubai. A second place at the BMW Masters was followed by a third place at the Barclays Singapore Open to wrap up the title with two events remaining. To finish off his season, he won the DP World Tour Championship, Dubai , making birdie on the last five holes to beat Justin Rose by two strokes.  He thus duplicated Luke Donald 's 2011 feat of winning both the PGA Tour and European Tour money titles in the same year. , McIlroy began 2013 with high aspirations, but mostly did not fare well in early tournaments. Struggling with the equipment change having signed a large endorsement deal with Nike in January, he withdrew from the Honda Classic in February, and finished in two over par and in a tie for 25th place at the 2013 Masters Tournament .  McIlroy won the 2013 Emirates Australian Open on the 72nd hole. He beat Australian Adam Scott by one stroke.  , In January, McIlroy was hit with a two-shot penalty for not taking proper and full relief after driving onto a spectator pathway in the Abu Dhabi HSBC Golf Championship, his first event of the season. He was alerted to his mistake by Scottish caddie Dave Renwick after his round and, after signing for a 70 instead of a 68 to reflect the penalty, he told reporters: "There are many stupid rules in golf and this is one of them." The two-shot penalty ultimately cost him dearly, as he lost the tournament by a single shot.  , In March, McIlroy lost in a four-man sudden-death playoff at the Honda Classic on the PGA Tour, despite leading the tournament through all four rounds until the back nine on Sunday. He shot a final round 74 (+4) and had a superb second shot to the par-five 18th in regulation play to qualify for the playoff, after missing the eagle putt for the win. He lost on the first extra hole, when Russell Henley was the only one of the four to birdie the hole. , In May in England, McIlroy won the BMW PGA Championship at Wentworth by one stroke. He carded a six-under-par 66 final round to beat Thomas Bjørn , who started the day seven strokes clear of McIlroy. The win was McIlroy's first on either of the two major tours in 18 months.  , On 20 July, McIlroy won the 2014 Open Championship at Royal Liverpool by two strokes over Rickie Fowler and Sergio García to capture the third major championship of his career, having led the field throughout the tournament.  McIlroy and Tiger Woods are the only golfers to win both The Silver Medal and The Gold Medal at The Open Championship. His third major title having won the 2011 U.S. Open and 2012 PGA Championship , McIlroy became the first European to win three different majors and joined Jack Nicklaus and Tiger Woods as one of three golfers since the first Masters Tournament in 1934 to win three majors by the age of 25.  He also in the process became the only British golfer to win 3 different majors. , After a week off following his Open victory, McIlroy won his first World Golf Championship event at the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational at Firestone and returned to world number one.  Starting the final day three shots behind Sergio García , McIlroy shot a 66 to finish on 15 under par and two strokes clear. The following week, he won the PGA Championship at Valhalla for his fourth major, one shot ahead of runner-up Phil Mickelson .  After his victory Jack Nicklaus said: "Rory is an unbelievable talent. I think Rory has an opportunity to win 15 or 20 majors or whatever he wants to do if he wants to keep playing. I love his swing, I love his rhythm, I love his moxie. He's got a little swagger there, it’s a little bit cocky but not offensive."  , McIlroy's second tournament of the year yielded victory as he won the European Tour's Omega Dubai Desert Classic for a second time. With a score of 22-under-par, matching the record set by Stephen Gallacher and Thomas Bjørn . [ citation needed ] He missed the cut in his first start of the PGA Tour season at the Honda Classic . It was his first missed cut on the PGA Tour since the 2013 Open Championship, a streak of 22 consecutive events. [ citation needed ] He finished fourth at the 2015 Masters Tournament , his best career Masters finish. [ citation needed ] On 3 May, he won the WGC-Cadillac Match Play Championship event held at TPC Harding Park in San Francisco.  This is his second World Golf Championship. In the process becoming only the third player behind Tiger Woods and Jack Nicklaus to win 10 PGA tour events and four majors by the age of 25. , On 16 May, while playing in the Wells Fargo Championship , McIlroy shot a course-record 61 at the Quail Hollow Club in Charlotte, North Carolina .  He went on to win the championship for a second time, by 7 strokes with a tournament record score. This was his 2nd win in three straight events.  , McIlroys tough schedule eventually caught up with him as he missed the cut at his next two events. First at the BMW PGA championship , he opened with an average one-under-par 71 but faded the next day to a 6-over 78. He claiming mental fatigue got the better of him and not its physical counterpart. The following week at the Irish Open , McIlroy shot a first round 80 to lie 9-over and in a tie for last place. The following day he managed a level-par 71 around Royal County Down which left him 4 shots off the halfway cut. McIlroy stated he had left himself too much to do after a woeful Thursday performance in front of his home Northern Irish fans and at the event he now hosts. He later claimed he was looking forward to a break after 5 tournaments in a row. , In 2012, besides leading the PGA Tour money list, McIlroy won the PGA Player of the Year , PGA Tour Player of the Year , Vardon Trophy , and Byron Nelson Award . In addition to winning the Race to Dubai, he was voted the European Tour Golfer of the Year . He also won the Mark H. McCormack Award for leading the Official World Golf Ranking for the most weeks in the year (28 of 52 weeks). Also in 2012, he won a Laureus World Sports Award in the category Breakthrough of the Year . , In 2014, McIlroy again swept the PGA Tour awards : Arnold Palmer Award (leading money winner), PGA Player of the Year, PGA Tour Player of the Year, Vardon Trophy, and Byron Nelson Award. He also won the Race to Dubai and was voted the European Tour Golfer of the Year. He again won the Mark H. McCormack Award for leading the Official World Golf Ranking for the most weeks in the year (22 of 52 weeks). He was awarded the RTE Sports Person of the year for the second time, previously winning in 2011, and the BBC Northern Ireland Sport Personality of the Year for the third time after victories in 2011 and 2012. He also came 2nd in the National BBC Sports Personality of the Year award, behind Formula 1 World Champion Lewis Hamilton. , McIlroy employs the interlocking grip on full shots. He has worked with various professional golfers since he was young, including Darren Clarke , Nick Faldo ,  and Graeme McDowell . McDowell frequently plays practice rounds at Tour events with McIlroy. , McIlroy obtained putting assistance and instruction [ when? ] from Dave Stockton , a retired PGA Tour player who works as a putting instructor. [ citation needed ] He was first managed by Englishman Andrew "Chubby" Chandler , a former European Tour player who founded International Sports Management (ISM). , McIlroy left ISM in 2011,  with McIlroy joining Dublin-based Horizon Sports Management.   Michael Bannon is expected to work full-time with McIlroy beginning in October 2012.  , In May 2009, McIlroy described the Ryder Cup as an "exhibition". McIlroy said: "It's not a huge goal of mine. In the big scheme of things it's not that important an event for me. It's an exhibition at the end of the day."  McIlroy went on to say: "Golf is an individual sport. You have individual goals and my goals are to win tournaments for myself."  European Ryder Cup captain Colin Montgomerie responded by saying that the contest "is not an exhibition and it never will be. It's a very unique, special event."  The following year, in 2010, McIlroy said that he regretted his earlier comments and said that the Ryder Cup is "definitely not an exhibition".  , In May 2011, McIlroy was criticised for skipping The Players Championship . The skip was controversial because 48 of the top 50 in the world participated in it, the other golfer skipping being Lee Westwood .  , On 17 July 2011, following a poor showing over the weekend in the 2011 Open Championship , McIlroy told the media that he was "not a fan of golf tournaments that are predicted so much by the weather," and saying he would rather "wait for a year when the weather is nice" instead of tuning his game to prepare for the Open Championship. He also added that he would "rather play when it's 80 degrees and sunny and not much wind".  , On 28 July 2011, after being criticised on air by commentator Jay Townsend about McIlroy's questionable course management skills during the first round of the Irish Open , McIlroy wrote on Twitter telling Townsend to "shut up" and saying Townsend is a "failed golfer" and that "his opinion meant nothing". Later, McIlroy stood by his comments and stated that his comments were made in defence of his caddie J. P. Fitzgerald whom Townsend had been blaming for McIlroy's course management since 2008.  , In February 2013, McIlroy was criticised for withdrawing from the 2013 Honda Classic, citing tooth pain. Critics claimed that tooth pain was not the issue, and that McIlroy, the world number one at the time, was having difficulty adjusting to new equipment, and that he should have finished the tournament. Regarding his withdrawal, McIlroy stated, "this is one of my favourite tournaments of the year and I regret having to make the decision to withdraw, but it was one I had to make."  , In March 2015, McIlroy threw a club into the water at the WGC-Cadillac Championship after hitting his ball into the water on the par-5 eighth hole during the second round at Doral .  McIlroy subsequently apologized for throwing the club saying "It felt good at the time but now I regret it. Frustration got the better of me."  , McIlroy has been cited as the most exciting young prospect in golf and as having the potential to become one of the highest earners in sports in terms of endorsements.    SportsPro rated him the third-most marketable athlete in the world.  In January 2013 he signed a large endorsement deal with Nike , with wide speculation on its terms. As time passed, initial rumours of a 10-year/$250 million accord ratcheted down to a more likely $100 million deal of an undetermined length.  , McIlroy is the namesake for EA Sports ' upcoming video game Rory McIlroy PGA Tour , replacing Tiger Woods, who had been the previous namesake for the series from 1998 to 2013.  , McIlroy was raised Roman Catholic and has self-identified as Irish,  Northern Irish,  and British.   He carries a British passport,  although he usually is reluctant to discuss his nationality at length.   , On 18 June 2014, McIlroy declared that he would represent Ireland (if he qualifies) at the 2016 Olympic Summer Games , where golf will become an Olympic event for the first time since 1904.  In 2012 he had expressed an interest in representing Great Britain as opposed to Ireland, however in January 2013 he was considering the options of playing for Britain or Ireland or not playing at all, stating; "I just think being from where we're from, we're placed in a very difficult position. I feel Northern Irish and obviously being from Northern Ireland you have a connection to Ireland and a connection to the UK. If I could and there was a Northern Irish team I'd play for Northern Ireland. Play for one side or the other – or not play at all because I may upset too many people… Those are my three options I'm considering very carefully", before choosing Ireland in 2014.   , McIlroy lived near the village of Moneyreagh in County Down, about 20 minutes from Belfast. The land around his home included a custom-made practice facility and a scaled-down football pitch.  In September 2012, the house was put up for sale for a price of £2 million.  In December 2012, McIlroy purchased a $10 million property in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida , located close to Jack Nicklaus ' The Bear's Club.   , McIlroy is an Ambassador for UNICEF Ireland  and made his first visit to Haiti with UNICEF in June 2011.   , His great-uncle Joe McIlroy was killed by the Ulster Volunteer Force in a sectarian attack at his east Belfast home in November 1972.   , McIlroy dated Danish tennis professional Caroline Wozniacki from 2011 to 2014.  They became engaged on 31 December 2013.  On 21 May 2014, it was announced that McIlroy had ended the engagement: "The problem is mine. The wedding invitations issued at the weekend made me realise that I wasn't ready for all that marriage entails. I wish Caroline all the happiness she deserves and thank her for the great times we've had."  Wozniacki later revealed that McIlroy had ended the relationship through a brief phone call, and had not contacted her since.   , McIlroy is a fan of Premier League football team Manchester United .  In his acceptance speech following his 2014 Open Championship win at Royal Liverpool, McIlroy addressed the crowd by joking; "Even though I'm a Man United fan standing here," which saw him booed in jest by arch rival Liverpool fans, before he thanked them for their great support.  , Having signed a lucrative endorsement deal with American sportswear company Nike in 2013, McIlroy filmed a Nike commercial with Manchester United striker Wayne Rooney .  In 2013, SportsPro ranked McIlroy the third most marketable athlete in the world behind football stars Neymar and Lionel Messi .  , McIlroy supports the Ulster Rugby team. He often interrupts his busy golfing schedule to attend matches at the Kingspan Stadium in Belfast.   , McIlroy was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2012 New Year Honours for services to sport.   , McIlroy will file documents to create a new company known as Rory McIlroy Inc with the Companies Registration Office in Carlow in March 2015. The new company, headed by Donal Casey, will manage all the royalty payments from his various endorsements.  , McIlroy is now dating PGA America employee, Erica Stoll.   , PGA Tour playoff record (0–2) , 1 Co-sanctioned by the Asian Tour , European Tour playoff record (0–2) , ^November 2008, in 2009 season , 1 Co-sanctioned by the European Tour , 1 Co-sanctioned by the OneAsia Tour , *As of the 2014 season.  , *As of the 2013–14 season.  , Results not in chronological order prior to 2015. , Amateur , Professional , As of 1 February 2015  , Player in bold denotes current number one  Adam Derek Scott (born 16 July 1980) is an Australian professional golfer who plays mainly on the PGA Tour . He was the World No. 1 ranked golfer, from mid-May to August 2014.  He has won 27 professional tournaments around the world (3 being unofficial money events), on many of golf's major tours. His biggest win to date was the 2013 Masters Tournament , his first major championship and the first Masters won by an Australian in its 77-year history.  Other significant wins include the 2004 Players Championship and the 2011 WGC-Bridgestone Invitational . He was the runner-up in the 2012 Open Championship , leading by four strokes with four holes to play before bogeying all of them to lose the title by a stroke to Ernie Els .  , , , Scott was born in Adelaide , South Australia and moved with his family at the age of nine to the Sunshine Coast, Queensland . Where he attended Matthew Flinders Anglican College . They then settled on the Gold Coast, Queensland in 1993. Initially at The Southport School , an Anglican boys' school on the Gold Coast, he completed his high school education at The Kooralbyn International School , also on the Gold Coast, where he undertook extra subjects in golf. He was a member of the Golf Australia National Squad . He later attended the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV), where he was initiated into the Sigma Chi fraternity. , In April 2014, Scott married Marie Kojzar, a Swedish architect, in a small ceremony in the Bahamas . Scott and Kojzar had previously been in a long-term relationship in the early to mid 2000s, before splitting up and then reuniting in 2013.  In February 2015 the couple announced the arrival of their daughter, Bo Vera Scott, who was born at Pindara Private Hospital in Queensland, Australia.  , He had previously been in a relationship with former tennis World No. 1 Ana Ivanovic in 2010. They separated in September of that year.  The pair reunited in 2011, before splitting up one year later.  , Scott is the touring professional at The Palms Golf Course Sanctuary Cove, where he resides while in Australia, located on the Gold Coast, Queensland. For tax purposes, Scott is resident in Switzerland .  , Scott is also an avid surfer .  , Scott won the Australian Boys' Amateur in 1997 and 1998.  He was a member of the Golf Australia National Squad . , Scott turned professional midway through the 2000 season after some impressive performances early in the year on the European Tour . He earned his card for the 2001 European Tour season in just eight starts as a professional, his best result being a tie for sixth at the Linde German Masters . Scott also made a handful of appearances on the PGA Tour but made only one cut in six events. , Scott's playing career took off in 2001, his first full year as a professional golfer, when he won the European Tour 's Alfred Dunhill Championship in Johannesburg , South Africa for his very first professional title. This event was Scott's first start of the year and was co-sanctioned by the European and Sunshine Tours. He beat Justin Rose to the title by one stroke.  Scott had three other top-3 finishes throughout the season and went on to finish 13th in the Order of Merit in his first season. , The following year in 2002, Scott enjoyed a very successful season, with two emphatic victories on the European Tour and a final position of seventh on the Order of Merit. His first win of the year was a six-shot victory at the Qatar Masters . Later in the year, Scott obliterated the field in the Scottish PGA Championship , shooting a final round of 63 to win by ten shots.  This is still the biggest ever margin of victory he has achieved in his career. In between these victories, Scott made his debut at the Masters Tournament , where he finished a very respectable tied 9th. , In 2003, Scott enjoyed a good run at the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship where he went all the way to the semi finals before losing to eventual champion Tiger Woods on the 19th hole. He had previously beaten Bernhard Langer , Rocco Mediate , Kevin Sutherland and Jay Haas en route to the semi's, before defeating fellow Australian Peter Lonard 1up in the consolation match. In August 2003, Scott won his fourth European Tour title at the Scandinavian Masters by two strokes over Nick Dougherty . A month later he followed it up with his first victory in the United States on the PGA Tour at the inaugural Deutsche Bank Championship . The win came in his 34th career start on the PGA Tour. He shot a course record 62 in the second round to lead by two at the halfway stage and went on to win by four from Rocco Mediate .  At the end of the year he made his first appearance on the International team at the President's Cup , contributing three points out of five, en route to a 17–17 tie. , Scott had further success on the PGA Tour in 2004 where he won the flagship event of the tour, The Players Championship . Scott had held a two stroke lead going down the 18th, but found the water hazard with his approach to the green. However, he sealed the title with a 40-yard up and down, which included a ten footer for bogey to win by a shot from Pádraig Harrington . He became the youngest ever winner of The Players Championship at 23 years old.  Three months later, Scott collected this third PGA Tour win, with victory at the Booz Allen Classic . He equalled the tournament total record at 21 under par to win by four from Charles Howell III .  , Early in 2005 he won the Nissan Open , but as the tournament was shortened to 36 holes due to heavy rain, it is not recognised as an official victory. Sharing the halfway lead with Chad Campbell , they played off to determine the winner, with Scott winning on the first playoff hole. As a result, he reached the top ten of the Official World Golf Rankings for the first time in his career. He has since spent over 220 weeks in the top-10 of the rankings.    Several months later, Scott won his fifth European Tour title with victory at the Johnnie Walker Classic in Beijing , China. He shot a course record 63 on the way to a three shot victory. Scott also won the Singapore Open later in 2005 on the Asian Tour by seven strokes over Lee Westwood . , Scott played less frequently on the European Tour from 2006 onwards, focusing more on the PGA Tour. He had a successful year, recording one victory alongside three runners up finishes and three-third places. He finished tied third at the PGA Championship, which was his best showing at a major championship. He then went on later in the year to finish tied second at the WGC-American Express Championship, finishing eight strokes behind Tiger Woods . At the end of the year, Scott won the season-ending Tour Championship by three strokes for his fourth career PGA Tour win and finished third on the PGA Tour money list for 2006.  , The 2007 season started for Scott with a second place finish at the season opening Mercedes Benz Championship in Hawaii behind Vijay Singh. After this, Scott reached his career high ranking of world number three. He then won for the fifth time on the PGA Tour, the week before the Masters, at the Shell Houston Open . After hitting his tee shot into the water on the 72nd hole, he made a 48-foot par putt to seal a three stroke victory over Stuart Appleby and Bubba Watson .  He then played consistently for the rest of the year, qualifying for all four FedEx Cup playoff events and finishing 10th in the final standings. , In 2008 he played enough events on the European Tour to qualify for playing on the Order of Merit for the first time since 2005. Scott endured a somewhat difficult season in 2008 with injury and illness, but he managed to win once on each tour. In January 2008 he started off the year in fine style by winning his sixth career title on the European Tour at the Qatar Masters. Scott carded a brilliant 11-under-par final round of 61, which was both a course record and personal best round. He started his final round three shots behind the overnight leader and won the tournament by finishing three shots ahead of Henrik Stenson .  , In April 2008, Scott won the EDS Byron Nelson Championship in a playoff against Ryan Moore . Scott holed a nine-foot putt to make the playoff on the 72nd hole. The playoff started with Moore and Scott making pars on the first two extra holes before Scott holed a dramatic 48-foot birdie putt at the third extra hole for the victory.  At the 2008 U.S. Open , World No. 1 Tiger Woods , World No. 2 Phil Mickelson and World No. 3 Scott were all paired together in the first two rounds of the tournament. Woods won in a playoff, Mickelson finished in 18th, and Scott finished in 26th. He ended the year 39th on the money list. , Scott's form dipped badly in 2009 as he dropped out of the top 50 in the world rankings and finished the year outside of the top 100 on the PGA Tour money list. He finished 108th on the money list which is his worst ever placing in his career. In 19 events on the PGA Tour, he missed the cut 10 times, with his only top 10 finish coming at the Sony Open in Hawaii in January. He did however win at the end of year in December at his home championship, the Australian Open , for his first victory on home soil in his career. , Despite a quiet couple of years Scott won his seventh career PGA Tour title at the Valero Texas Open in May 2010, prevailing in a 36 hole long Sunday to finish one stroke ahead of Swede Fredrik Jacobson . It was Scott's first PGA Tour victory for two years.  He qualified and played in all the FedEx Cup playoffs, finishing 27th at the Tour Championship. In November, Scott won the Barclays Singapore Open for the third time in his career, having previously triumphed in 2005 and 2006. It was also his seventh title on the European Tour. , Scott achieved his best finish at a major championship when he finished in a tie for second place at the 2011 Masters Tournament alongside compatriot Jason Day , two strokes behind the winner Charl Schwartzel . Scott had held the sole lead of the tournament while playing the 71st hole, but four birdies in a row from Schwartzel meant Scott fell short by two strokes.  , With Tiger Woods injured at the U.S. Open , and The Open Championship in 2011, Woods's caddy Steve Williams caddied for Scott. After Woods fired Williams on 20 July, Williams became Scott's permanent caddy. The two enjoyed their first win together on 7 August 2011 when Scott triumphed at the 2011 WGC-Bridgestone Invitational , earning him his first career World Golf Championship and eighth title overall on both of the main tours. He beat Luke Donald and Rickie Fowler by four strokes after a bogey-free final round of 65, becoming the 20th different player to win a World Golf Championship event.  Scott returned to the world's top 10 for the first time in over two years after his win, re-entering at ninth.  , In attempting to become the first player to win a major the week after winning a tour event since Tiger Woods in 2007, Scott finished tied seventh at the PGA Championship. Scott was one of six players to post two top 10 finishes at majors in 2011. He then held the 36 hole lead at the season ending Tour Championship, before rounds of 74-68 led to a tied sixth finish. Scott ended the year number 16 in the standings. In November 2011, Scott was one of five Australians in the President's Cup team that lost to the United States in Australia. Scott ended with a 2–3–0 record. , Scott started the year later than usual, not making an appearance until 19 February at the Northern Trust Open , where he finished in a tie for 17th. In April, Scott enjoyed his second consecutive top-10 at the Masters Tournament when he finished T8th. He shot a final round 66, which included a hole-in-one at the 16th hole, to advance up the leaderboard on the final day. In the years second major championship, Scott had his best result at the U.S. Open with a tie for 15th at the Olympic Club . He shot three consecutive rounds of 70 in rounds two, three and four. Then in the build-up to The Open Championship , Scott finished in third at the AT&T National . , At the 2012 Open Championship , Scott equalled the course record for Royal Lytham & St Annes Golf Club at an Open Championship when he shot a six-under-par round of 64 to lead by one stroke after the first round.  This was then matched by American Brandt Snedeker in the second round, to lead Scott by one stroke going into the weekend after Scott had recorded a round of 67 with four birdies and one bogey. In the third round, Scott shot a 68 to take a four stroke lead into the final round, ahead of Brandt Snedeker and Graeme McDowell . , In the final round, Scott's birdie on the 14th gave him a cushion of four shots with four holes to play. On the 15th, Scott made bogey after he pulled his approach shot into a greenside bunker. At the 16th he overhit his approach shot onto the back of the green to leave a lengthy putt for birdie. He missed the putt by about five feet and could not convert the short par putt. As Scott was playing the 17th, Ernie Els had birdied the final hole to become the leader in the clubhouse at seven under, one shot behind Scott. On the 17th, from the middle of the fairway, Scott overhit his approach shot and landed in some thick rough at the back of the green. He could only pitch out to 20 feet away and missed the resulting putt to record his third bogey and drop into a tie for the lead with Els. , At the final hole, needing a birdie to win or a par to get into a playoff with Els, Scott found a bunker off the tee and his ball ended up tight underneath the lip. He was only able to pitch out sideways. For his third stroke he played a brilliant iron shot to leave himself with an eight-foot par putt to take the championship to a playoff. Scott narrowly missed the putt on the outside edge of the hole, resulting in another bogey to finish the round. Scott shot a final round of 75 to finish at six under, one stroke behind the champion Ernie Els.  , Scott's epic collapse down the home stretch was compared to many other famous golfing collapses down the years including fellow countryman Greg Norman at the 1996 Masters.  After the round Scott said that his finish was down to finding some bad positions on the course, rather than nerves. He also said "I'm very disappointed but I played so beautifully for most of the week I really shouldn't let this bring me down. I know I've let a really great chance slip through my fingers today, but somehow I'll look back and take the positives from it."  Despite the finish, Scott equalled his second best ever performance at a major championship, alongside his tied second at the 2011 Masters and he returned to the world's top 10, at number six. , Scott's first appearance after The Open Championship was at the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational , where he attempted to defend his title from the previous year. He ended the week in a tie for 45th place. The following week, Scott was again in the mix at the PGA Championship , entering the final round in the penultimate grouping, four shots behind the leader Rory McIlroy . In good conditions though, Scott shot an over par 73 to drop back into a final position of T11th. , On 18 November, Scott fired a bogey-free final round at Kingston Heath in the Melbourne Sandbelt , to win the Australian Masters for the first time. He trailed defending champion Ian Poulter by one going into the final round, but shot a 67, including a birdie on the last, to don the "Gold Jacket" for Masters champion.  , Scott opened the season later than most, with his first event coming at the Northern Trust Open , well into February of that year. He finished the event T10th with three rounds under par. He then played the two World Golf Championships consecutively, losing at the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship in the opening round 2&1 to Tim Clark . In the following WGC-Cadillac Championship , Scott fired the low round of the week on the final day to jump from T19 to T3 behind Tiger Woods and Steve Stricker . His last event before the Masters, was at the Tampa Bay Championship where he finished T30.  , At the 2013 Masters Tournament , Scott emerged from the chasing pack on the final day to enter into a tie for the lead heading into the 72nd hole. Scott proceeded to birdie the 18th from a considerable distance, prompting wild celebrations as he looked to have won the title. However, former champion Ángel Cabrera produced an excellent approach and subsequently also birdied the 72nd hole to tie Scott for the lead at −9, leading to a sudden-death playoff. Both players parred the first hole (18) with Cabrera inches away from birdie. On the second hole (10), Cabrera once again missed his birdie putt by inches, leaving Scott a 12-foot birdie putt for the championship, which Scott holed.  It was Scott's first major championship and marked the first time an Australian has won the Masters.  It was also seen by many as redemption for his failure to win the previous year's Open Championship.  , Scott's victory at the Masters moved him to No. 3 in the Official World Golf Ranking , equalling his career high ranking. Scott's win received some controversy as he won using a belly putter, being the first winner of the Masters to do so. On 29 November 2012, it was announced by the USGA and R&A, golf's two governing bodies, that belly putters/anchor putters would be banned from competition effective on 1 January 2016. It was not against the rules for Scott to use the belly putter for the 2013 Masters, as he has until 1 January 2016 to halt use.  , Scott had a disappointing U.S. Open , finishing in a tie for 45th place. He then had another strong showing at the Open Championship , taking a one-stroke lead heading into the back nine on the final day before eventually finishing in a tie for third. The final major of 2013, the PGA Championship , saw Scott finish in a tie for fifth. At the first event of the FedEx Cup Playoffs , The Barclays , Scott finished with a 66 (−5) final round to win over four players by one stroke and move to number two in the World Ranking, a career high.  , In October, Scott won the 2013 PGA Grand Slam of Golf event in which the four major winners of that year compete. A month later Scott would win in his native Australia , when he won the Australian PGA Championship , his fourth career victory on the PGA Tour of Australasia . This was quickly followed by winning the Australian Masters on 16 November, at Royal Melbourne, finishing 14 shots under par. The following week Scott would garner victory in the team portion of ISPS Handa World Cup of Golf , with fellow Australian Jason Day . The team shot a combined 17-under-par. Day won the individual championship at 10-under-par. Scott was runner up to Rory McIlroy in the Emirates Australian Open on 1 December 2013. He led by one stroke going into the final hole but a bogey by Scott and a birdie by McIlroy saw a two shot swing and victory to the Northern Irishman. Scott would finish 2013 as the World's #2 ranked golfer. , In March 2014, Scott tied the course record at Bay Hill Club & Lodge , when he shot a 10-under-par 62 during the first round of the Arnold Palmer Invitational . He went on to finish third in the tournament behind the winner Matt Every and Keegan Bradley after a poor four-over-par 76 in the final round.  , On May 19, 2014, Scott took over as the World's #1 ranked golfer.  Scott is the 17th golfer to be ranked number one since official rankings began. He is also the second Australian and the first since Greg Norman in 1998. A week after becoming world #1, Scott strengthened his ranking with a win at the Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial , being the first person to win all four Texas-based PGA Tour events. Scott held the number one ranking for eleven weeks until August 2014. , Scott has represented Australia in the World Cup in 2002 and 2013 and was a member of the International Team at the Presidents Cup in 2003, 2005, 2007, 2009, 2011, and 2013. Despite making six appearances on the International team, he has yet to play on a winning team. , * Note: The 2005 Nissan Open was shortened to 36 holes due to rain. Scott defeated Chad Campbell on the first hole of a sudden-death playoff. Due to the event's length, this win is not officially recognized. , PGA Tour playoff record (3–0) , 1 Co-sanctioned by the European Tour , 1 Co-sanctioned by European and Australasian Tours , 1 Defeated Ángel Cabrera in a sudden-death playoff – Scott (4-3=7) and Cabrera (4-4=8). , Results not in chronological order prior to 2015. , As of 25 May 2014  , Player in bold denotes current number one  Stuart Appleby (born 1 May 1971) is an Australian professional golfer . , , , Appleby was born in Cohuna , Victoria , and grew up on a nearby dairy farm . He began in golf by hitting balls from paddock to paddock after his farm chores were completed. As a youth, he played Australian Rules Football .  , Appleby turned professional in 1992 and began his career on the PGA Tour of Australasia . In 1995 he won twice on the Nike Tour (now known as the Web.com Tour ), the second tier men's tour on in the U.S. He was the eighth player to win his first Web.com Tour start. He qualified to compete on the PGA Tour the following year by finishing the season fifth on the money list.  , Appleby has won nine times on the PGA Tour. He was a member of the International Team in the Presidents Cup four times, and featured in the top ten of the Official World Golf Ranking in 2004.  His best performance in a major championship came in 2002, where he lost in a four-way playoff to Ernie Els at The Open Championship .  , In 2010, during the final round of the inaugural Greenbrier Classic , Appleby became the fifth player in history to shoot a 59 in an official PGA Tour event.  Appleby won the 2010 PGA Tour Comeback Player of the Year award.  , Appleby's first wife, Renay, was killed in an automobile accident outside London Waterloo station in 1998,  shortly after he had missed the cut at The Open Championship . , Appleby married his second wife, Ashley Saleet, in 2002. He lives with Ashley and their four children in Orlando, Florida . After the 1999 plane crash that killed his friend and next-door neighbour Payne Stewart , he has been one of the key father figures for Stewart's children, Chelsea and Aaron.  In his spare time, Appleby enjoys motor racing.  He is the ambassador for Golf Australia 's Crown Lager Social Golf Club and patron for Stuart Appleby Junior Golf . , PGA Tour playoff record (2–1) , 1 Defeated Alarcon with birdie on seventh extra hole. , Note: Appleby is the only golfer to compete in the first 32 WGC events.   Dustin Hunter Johnson (born June 22, 1984) is an American professional golfer who currently plays on the PGA Tour . He is one of the longest drivers on the PGA Tour, having been third in the driving distance stats for three consecutive years (2009–11) and has ranked inside the top five in each of his five years on the PGA Tour.  [ dead link ] He has been featured in the top 5 of the Official World Golf Ranking , reaching a high of 4th in 2011. He finished second at the 2015 U.S. Open . , , , Johnson was born in Columbia, South Carolina , and played collegiate golf at Coastal Carolina University . As an amateur, he won the Monroe Invitational and the Northeast Amateur in 2007 and played on the winning 2007 Walker Cup and Palmer Cup teams. Johnson is the first player since Tiger Woods to win at least once in each of his first seven seasons coming out of college. , Johnson turned professional in late 2007 and earned his 2008 PGA Tour card by finishing in a tie for 14th place at the 2007 qualifying school in December.   , Toward the end of his rookie season in October 2008 , Johnson won his first PGA Tour event, the Turning Stone Resort Championship in upstate New York . Four months later, he won his second event at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am , which was shortened to 54 holes when the final round was canceled due to strong winds and heavy rain. Johnson won by four strokes over Mike Weir and five strokes over second round leader Retief Goosen , who shot a third round 74. Johnson finished the 2009 season ranked 15th on the PGA Tour money list. , On July 31, 2014, Johnson announced he was taking the rest of the season off to seek professional help for "personal challenges".  , In February 2010 , Johnson birdied the final hole to defeat former world number one David Duval and two-time PGA Tour winner J. B. Holmes to successfully defend his AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am title.  , He continued his Pebble Beach success by shooting 71-70-66 to take a three-shot lead over Graeme McDowell at the 2010 U.S. Open . In the last pairing on Sunday, Johnson had trouble early and never recovered; he shot a disappointing 82 and finished tied for eighth (McDowell won the championship).  , In the final round of the 2010 PGA Championship , Johnson held a one-shot lead entering the final hole. He appeared to have bogeyed the hole, which would have tied him for first and entered him into a three-hole playoff with Bubba Watson and Martin Kaymer . However, he received a two-stroke penalty for grounding his club in a bunker, thereby dropping him to a tie for fifth place.   Kaymer eventually won the playoff. , Johnson broke his streak of bad luck at the third FedEx Cup playoff event of the season, the BMW Championship at Cog Hill in September. It was Johnson's fourth career PGA Tour victory, and his first in any FedEx Cup playoff event. He finished the 2010 season ranked 4th on the PGA Tour money list. , Johnson took part in the Long Drive Contest for charity at the Hyundai Tournament of Champions in January, alongside Bubba Watson and Robert Garrigus . , In March 2011 , Johnson entered the final round of the WGC-Cadillac Championship with a two stroke lead over the rest of the field. However he could only manage a final round one-under-par 71 to finish as runner-up behind Nick Watney . , Johnson earned his best finish in a major championship in July at the 2011 Open Championship in England . He finished in a tie for second place at Royal St George's , alongside fellow American Phil Mickelson , three strokes behind champion Darren Clarke . Johnson's first three rounds of 70-68-68 left him one stroke behind Clarke and for most of Sunday's round Johnson managed to keep up with him, at one stage being just one back. His final round charge was derailed at the par five 14th, when his second shot went out of bounds and led to a double bogey. This took Johnson out of contention as he slipped to four strokes behind Clarke with only four holes to play. One highlight of Johnson's week at Royal St George's came in the first round when he recorded a hole in one on the par three 16th hole. This result marked the third time that Johnson had been part of the final group on Sunday at a major championship and also occurring in three out of the four majors, the 2010 U.S. Open , the 2010 PGA Championship and the 2011 Open Championship . As a result of this second-place finish, Johnson moved to his highest spot in the Official World Golf Ranking at the time, seventh, and became the third-ranked American behind Steve Stricker and Mickelson. , Johnson won his fifth PGA Tour title at The Barclays in 2011. He beat Matt Kuchar by two strokes. This was his second 54-hole tournament victory of his career, after the 2009 AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. The tournament was shortened due to the threat of Hurricane Irene . Johnson shot rounds of 66-63-65 to win at -19. This was Johnson's first victory of 2011 and it moved him from 19th to first in the FedEx Cup standings.  It was also the second FedEx Cup playoff event win of his career after he won the BMW Championship in 2010. The win also took him to a career high of 4th in the world rankings, the second highest American, (behind Steve Stricker ). Although he started the playoffs well and held the number one position for the first week, he was unable to continue his form at the three remaining playoff events and did not record a single top 20 in any of them and finished the fourth in the final FedEx Cup standings.  , Johnson incurred a back injury at home in March and missed over two months of the 2012 season, including the first major at The Masters . He returned to competition in late May at the Memorial Tournament in Ohio, made the cut and finished tied for 19th. The following week he won his sixth tour event, the FedEx St. Jude Classic in Memphis, Tennessee at TPC Southwind .  He missed the cut at the U.S.Open the week after, finishing at +9, one stroke outside the cut mark. , Johnson began his 2013 season with a win at the season opening Hyundai Tournament of Champions , an event reserved for winners from the past season. Johnson won by four strokes over defending champion Steve Stricker in an event that was shortened to 54 holes due the bad weather, mainly very strong wind that meant conditions were unplayable. The first three days of the tournament were wiped out, with the field having to complete 36 holes on the Monday and a final 18 on Tuesday. The event was Johnson's seventh PGA Tour win and his third in a 54-hole event; a 54-hole event is still considered an official win with full OWGR ranking points. The same week Johnson also was seen with Paulina Gretzky , daughter of Wayne Gretzky . The two announced their engagement on August 18.   In November, Johnson won the WGC-HSBC Champions , part of the 2013–14 PGA Tour season. , On July 31, 2014, Johnson announced he was taking the rest of the season off to seek professional help for personal challenges.  On August 1, conflicting reports surfaced regarding the circumstances of Johnson's announcement from the previous day. Golf Magazine reported that Johnson had been suspended from the PGA Tour for six months after testing positive for cocaine . The magazine indicated that this was his third positive drug test, after a 2009 positive for marijuana and 2012 positive for cocaine.  However, PGA Tour officials indicated that Johnson was taking a voluntary leave and was not under suspension.  , On September 23, 2014, his fiance Paulina Gretzky announced that she was pregnant with the couple's first child, due in 2015.  On January 20, 2015, Johnson announced the birth of their first child, a son.  , Johnson returned to the tour at the Farmers Insurance Open in February. He missed the cut by one stroke.  In the next two events Johnson played, he recorded two top-five finishes: tied for fourth at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am ; and tied for second at the Northern Trust Open after losing at the third playoff hole to James Hahn . Johnson missed a 12 footer for birdie on the third extra hole to extend the playoff.  Those results led Johnson back inside the top-15 in the World Ranking.  After another missed cut at The Honda Classic , Johnson beat J. B. Holmes by one stroke to win the WGC-Cadillac Championship at Trump National Doral in Miami, Florida. The win earned Johnson $1,570,000 and marked the first win for Johnson since his self-imposed six-month leave of absence from professional golf to work on "personal issues" in his life. The win moved him to 7th in the world rankings.  At the 2015 U.S. Open , Johnson held a share of the lead heading into the final round. Johnson had two birdies on the front-nine but had three bogeys on the back-nine but birdied 17 to get within one of Jordan Spieth . Johnson hit a five iron to the par-5 18th, 12 feet from the hole. He hit his eagle putt to win 3 feet past the hole and then missed the three footer coming back to give the title to Spieth. , * Shortened to 54 holes due to poor weather conditions. , PGA Tour playoff record (0–1) , Results not in chronological order prior to 2015. , Amateur , Professional , As of March 8, 2015   Choi Kyung-Ju ( Korean : 최경주 , pronounced  [tɕʰwe ɡjʌŋdʑu] ; born 19 May 1970), commonly known as K. J. Choi , is a South Korean professional golfer who currently plays on the PGA Tour . Since turning pro in 1994, he has won a total of twenty professional golf tournaments worldwide, including eight on the PGA Tour, making him Asia's most successful golfer. His most notable victory came at the 2011 Players Championship , and he has spent 40 weeks in the top-10 of the world rankings .   , , , After establishing his career on the Asian Tour , where he picked up his first professional win at the 1996 Korean Open , and the Japan Golf Tour , where he won twice in 1999, Choi qualified for membership of the U.S.-based PGA Tour by finishing tied 35th at the 1999 qualifying tournament . He was the first Korean to earn a PGA Tour card. In his rookie season in 2000 he finished 134th on the money list and had to requalify, but since 2001 he has been a consistent performer on the tour. In 2002 he became the first Korean to win on the PGA Tour at the Compaq Classic of New Orleans , and followed it up with another victory at the Tampa Bay Classic later that year. , In 2003 he won the Linde German Masters on the European Tour , his first and only win to date on the European Tour.  , Choi won Jack Nicklaus 's Memorial Tournament in 2007. He mentioned on CBS during the AT&T National that he read Jack Nicklaus's "Golf My Way" book early in his golf career, which assisted him in becoming the golfer he is today. , Choi won the first AT&T National hosted by Tiger Woods at the Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, Maryland . The trophy is a small replica of the U.S. Capitol building in Washington, DC. He made a spectacular sand trap shot on the 17th hole for a birdie to clinch the win over Steve Stricker by 3 shots. Choi was a crowd favorite and threw his golf ball into the crowd after holing his sand shot on the 17th hole. , In August 2007 he reached the top 10 of the world rankings for the first time. In January 2008, Choi won the Sony Open in Hawaii and rose to world number 7.  In March 2008, Choi reached fifth place in the rankings. , After his 7th PGA Tour victory at the 2008 Sony Open in Hawaii, Choi donated $320,000 of his earnings to the victims' families of a warehouse fire in Seoul , South Korea, which killed over forty people. , Choi won his fourth title on the Asian Tour in Malaysia in 2009 at the Iskandar Johor Open , which was reduced to 3 rounds due to inclement weather. , In May 2011, Choi won The Players Championship at TPC Sawgrass in a playoff against David Toms . Choi had a one shot lead going down the 18th hole in regulation time, but Toms made birdie while Choi could only chip and putt for a par taking it to a sudden-death playoff. Both players found the green at the first extra hole, the 17th, and then missed with their attempted birdie efforts. Toms however also missed the return four footer for par leaving Choi with a three-foot par putt to seal victory. This to date is the South Korean's biggest PGA Tour victory.  Following his win, Choi donated $200,000 to help victims of the tornados that ravaged the southeastern United States in April.  , Choi represented South Korea in the WGC-World Cup in 2002, 2003, and 2005, and was a member of the International Team in the Presidents Cup in 2003 , 2007 , and 2011 . , Choi was born in Wando , South Korea. He currently resides in Southlake, Texas , near fellow South Korean PGA Tour player Yang Yong-eun .  He is a devout Christian  and member of the Korean United Methodist Church .  He has donated much of his money to charity through the K.J. Choi Foundation.  , Before picking up golf Choi was a competitive power lifter, being able to squat 350 pounds (159 kg) as a 95-pound (43 kg) 13-year-old teenager, thus aptly nicknamed "Tank" by South Koreans. , PGA Tour playoff record (1–0) , Professional , As of April 4, 2013.   Sergio García Fernández (born 9 January 1980) is a professional golfer from Spain who plays on both the PGA Tour and the European Tour . He has won over 20 international tournaments, including The Players Championship in 2008. , García has spent much of his career in the top 10 of the Official World Golf Ranking (over 300 weeks between 2000 and 2009).   He reached a career high ranking of 2nd after winning the HSBC Champions tournament in November 2008, and has achieved post-tax career earnings of more than $28 million. As a player, he is particularly noted for his strong iron play and accuracy. To date he has not won any of golf's major championships, despite a number of near misses. He has finished a runner-up on four occasions, twice at The Open Championship and twice at the PGA Championship , with a further six top five finishes without breaking through. , , , García began playing golf at the age of three and was taught by his father, Victor, who is a club professional in Madrid , Spain. He was a star player as a junior, winning his club championship at age 12. Four years later, he set a record as the youngest player to make the cut at a European Tour event, the 1995 Turespaña Open Mediterranea. This record was broken by amateur Jason Hak in November 2008 at the UBS Hong Kong Open , beating García's record by 107 days. In 1995, García became the youngest player to win the European Amateur . He followed that with a win in the Boys Amateur Championship in 1997. He won a professional tournament, the 1997 Catalonian Open, on the European Challenge Tour, as an amateur. In 1998 he won The Amateur Championship , and reached the semifinals of the U.S. Amateur . [ citation needed ] , García turned professional in 1999 after shooting the lowest amateur score in the 1999 Masters Tournament . His first title on the European Tour came in his sixth start as a professional, in July 1999 at the Irish Open . He first achieved worldwide prominence with a duel against Tiger Woods in the 1999 PGA Championship , where he eventually finished second. Late in the final round, García hit his most famous shot: with his ball up against a tree trunk in the right rough on the 16th hole, and the green hidden from view, he swung hard with his eyes shut and hit a low curving fade that ran up onto the green. As the shot traveled, he sprinted madly into the fairway and then scissor-kick jumped to see the result. Shortly afterwards he became the youngest player ever to compete in the Ryder Cup . , When García first turned professional, he had an unorthodox swing with a circular loop and long large lag, and this method drew comparisons to Ben Hogan , one of the best players of all time. But during the 2003 season, he worked towards making his swing more conventional, but has largely kept his original method. In his early years, he repeatedly gripped, released, and regripped his hands on the club handle before finally taking a shot. This "waggle" habit created a stir, especially at the 2002 U.S. Open when some spectators shouted out, "Hit the ball, Sergio!", and some people audibly counted the number of regrips into the twenties. Since then he has eliminated the habit. Responding to criticism of his swing, he said, "My swing works for me, so why should I change it? I prefer to have a natural swing and play well rather than a perfect swing and not be able to play good."  , At the age of 21, García won his first PGA Tour event at the 2001 MasterCard Colonial in Fort Worth, Texas , and then won again at the Buick Classic in New York the same year. He was the youngest Tour winner since Tiger Woods in 1996 at age 20. In 2002 , García won the Mercedes Championships in early January, and in 2004 , he won the EDS Byron Nelson Championship and the Buick Classic for the second time. His sixth PGA Tour victory came at the 2005 Booz Allen Classic . He also plays a limited schedule on the European Tour, where he has won eleven times. In 2002, during a practice round, García made an albatross (double eagle) on the par-5 second hole at the Masters, one of the few players to have ever done so. On the 575-yard (526 m) hole at the Augusta National Golf Club , he holed a 253-yard (231 m) 2-iron following a 325-yard (297 m) drive. [ citation needed ] , García was a member of the European Ryder Cup team in 1999 , 2002 , 2004 , 2006 , 2008 , 2012 , and 2014 and holds an impressive career record at the Ryder Cup of 18–9–5 (.641).  Five of his appearances have resulted in overall victories. , In the 2006 Ryder Cup , at the K Club in Republic of Ireland, García won both his fourball and foursome matches (with José María Olazábal and Luke Donald , respectively) on day one, beating David Toms and Brett Wetterich in the fourballs and Tiger Woods and Jim Furyk in the foursomes. On day two, he paired up with Olazábal again, who won both their matches against Phil Mickelson and Chris DiMarco in both the foursomes and fourballs. Going into the final day in the singles, García was heavily tipped to be the second person to win all their matches in one Ryder Cup; however, Stewart Cink beat him 4 and 3. Europe won the cup again, with 18½ points to the United States' 9½ points. , In March 2007, García received criticism for a spitting incident at the WGC-CA Championship . During his third round García spat into the bottom of the cup on the 13th green after three-putting for bogey.   After missing the cut in the first two major championships of 2007, García came close to winning The Open Championship – his favorite of the four majors – at Carnoustie Golf Links in Scotland. He held the lead after each one of the first three rounds and carried a three-shot lead over Steve Stricker and a six-shot lead over the rest of the field into the start of the fourth day. , At an early stage of the last round, García had extended his lead to four shots, but bogeys at the 5th, 7th, and 8th holes brought him back to the field. On the final challenging hole, he needed a par to win, but failed to get up and down from the greenside bunker. The last putt on the 18th hole on Sunday, from about 8 feet (2.4 m), would have given him his first professional major. He missed it by a fraction and faced a four-hole playoff with Pádraig Harrington that he eventually lost by one stroke. , In his post-round news conference, García seemed to suggest that bad breaks had cost him the Open championship. During the playoff, on the long par-3 16th hole, his tee shot hit the flagstick but then bounced 20 feet (6 m) from the pin, off the green, and García could not convert for birdie. "It's not the first time, unfortunately," he stated. "I don't know... I'm playing against a lot of guys out there, more than the field." In the 2007 PGA Championship , he was disqualified after signing an incorrect scorecard after the third round.  , On 11 May 2008, García won The Players Championship on the PGA Tour in a sudden-death playoff against Paul Goydos . The playoff began at the par-3 17th, where Goydos hit a pitching wedge that ballooned and fell inches short of the island green and into the water, while García played a sand wedge to within four feet (1.3 m) of the hole. Goydos made double bogey while García made par for the win.  , At the 2008 PGA Championship , played over the South Course of Oakland Hills Country Club near Detroit, García narrowly missed out on winning his first professional major championship yet again. Like at the 2007 Open Championship, Pádraig Harrington was able to erase a García lead on the back nine to take the title. García finished two strokes back for his second runner-up finish at the PGA Championship . His most serious mistake during the final round was misjudging his second shot on the 16th, playing into a strong wind, which found the water in front of the par-4 hole's green, costing him sole ownership of the lead.  Regarding another near-miss in a major championship, García stated, "I felt like I responded well, and he was obviously very good on the back nine, and things just happened his way." , On 26 October 2008, he won his first European Tour title in over three years, at the first playing of the Castelló Masters Costa Azahar at his home course, the Club de Campo del Mediterráneo in Castellón, Spain. With this win, he rose to a career high of third in the Official World Golf Rankings .  He dedicated the victory to compatriot Seve Ballesteros , who was recovering from multiple operations from the brain tumor that would ultimately claim Ballesteros' life. He won the 2008 HSBC Champions , the opening event on the 2009 European Tour season on 9 November 2008 in a playoff over Oliver Wilson . This win notched him up to a career high second in the Official World Golf Rankings , replacing Phil Mickelson in that spot, who had ironically won the HSBC Champions in 2007. García earned more money than any other golfer in 2008, earning $6,979,959 in 26 events.  , After his success in 2008, García had a very disappointing season in 2009, rarely contending and finished ranked 74th on the PGA Tour money list. He had more success on the European Tour where he finished tenth in the inaugural Race to Dubai . His slump continued into 2010, and after missing the cut at the US PGA Championship , García announced he was taking a break from golf and would miss the 2010 Ryder Cup . He also dropped out of the top 50 of the Official World Golf Rankings . Struggles with the putter were the primary cause of his slump, since his ballstriking remained among the best in the world. On 29 August 2010, European Ryder Cup captain Colin Montgomerie announced that García would be his fourth vice captain for the 2010 Ryder Cup at Celtic Manor. , García returned to competitive play in late 2010 with a new putting grip and this produced better results for him on the greens during tournaments in 2011. After 36 holes, he was near the lead in both the 2011 Transitions Championship and the 2011 Byron Nelson Championship, but both times faded on the weekend to fall out of contention.  , García had to withdraw from qualifying for the 2011 British Open because of an infected finger. He had originally planned against qualifying for the 2011 U.S. Open , where he was outside the top-50 in the OWGR and was not guaranteed automatic entry. He eventually earned a spot in the U.S. Open after being one of the top four at a qualifying tournament near Memphis . García played well in all four rounds of the U.S. Open, ending in a tie for seventh place at five-under par 279.  García finished tied for ninth place in The 2011 Open Championship at Royal St George's. This was his 17th career top-10 finish in a major. , In late June 2011, García almost broke his winless streak dating back to 2008, when he lost at the fifth sudden-death playoff hole to fellow Spaniard Pablo Larrazábal at the BMW International Open . García led the tournament after the 11th hole of the final round with a stunning stretch of holes, which saw him produce three birdies and two eagles in six holes, from holes six to eleven. However his charge to the finish was derailed by four bogeys in five holes, leaving him needing a birdie at the last to make the playoff. In the playoff, both players made consecutive birdies at the first two extra holes (both par 5s) before parring holes three and four (both par 3s). At the fifth extra hole, García had a 30-foot (9 m) eagle putt for the victory, but ran the effort four feet (1.3 m) past the hole. The resulting putt lipped out, allowing Larrazábal to hole a two-foot birdie putt for the victory.  , García's runner-up finish at the BMW International Open ensured qualification for the 2011 Open Championship at Royal St George's , through the current form money list exemption. García went on to finish tied for 9th place at the Open Championship, his best finish for four years. He continued the run at the 2011 PGA Championship where he finished in a tie for 12th place, extending his streak to 50 consecutive majors played, the longest streak among active players. In October 2011, García ended a three-year title drought with back-to-back wins in his home country at the Castelló Masters and the Andalucía Masters . García won the Castelló Masters in dominant fashion, with a final score of 27-under-par, 11 strokes ahead of the field. It was the joint third highest victory margin on the European Tour , beaten only by Tiger Woods ' 15 stroke victory at the 2000 U.S. Open and Ernie Els ' 13 stroke win at the 2005 BMW Asian Open . After the win, García dedicated it to the late Seve Ballesteros , stating "That was for Seve."  , The following week, García won the Andalucía Masters , played at the Club de Golf Valderrama , arguably regarded as one of the toughest golf courses on the European Tour. He edged out fellow countryman Miguel Ángel Jiménez by one shot after a tense final round.  Following his back-to-back wins, García moved back into the top 20 of the Official World Golf Ranking . In August 2012, García ended a four-year title drought on the PGA Tour by winning the Wyndham Championship . In doing so, García also secured his place on the 2012 Ryder Cup team. In December 2012, García fired a final round 61 to win the Iskandar Johor Open on the Asian Tour . , At the 2013 Players Championship , García, while tied for the lead, hit three balls into the water on the 17th and 18th holes, finishing quadruple-bogey, double-bogey. He finished tied for 8th place.  , After the Players Championship, García and Tiger Woods (who won the tournament) had a public feud over an incident during the third round. Two weeks later, at a European Tour players dinner, García was asked about meeting with Woods at the U.S. Open, to which he responded, "We'll have him 'round every night. We will serve fried chicken."   The remark was seen as racially insensitive. García issued a statement later that night apologizing and then issued another apology the next day, saying that his comments were "totally stupid and out of place."   , In January 2014, García won the Commercial Bank Qatar Masters after defeating Mikko Ilonen in a playoff.  The win put him back in the world top 10.  , In July 2014, García finished joint runner-up at the 2014 Open Championship , two strokes behind Rory McIlroy . This was the second time García had finished as a runner-up at The Open Championship and fourth time in a major championship, having still yet to break through. García began the final round, seven strokes behind McIlroy, but got to within two after an eagle on the 10th hole. However his challenge was ended when he left his second shot in the bunker at the par three 15th which he would bogey to fall three behind with three to play. This finish moved García back inside the world's top five in the world rankings. , García is a bachelor.  , PGA Tour playoff record (4–6) , European Tour playoff record (3–4) , 1 Co-sanctioned with the Asian Tour , 1 Co-sanctioned with the European Tour , Results not in chronological order prior to 2015. , * As of 2014 seasons. , These figures are from the respective tour's official sites. Note that there is double counting of money earned in the majors and World Golf Championships. , Amateur , Professional , García has an endorsement deal with TaylorMade-Adidas Golf ,  uses all TaylorMade equipment, and Adidas shoes and clothing. His equipment setup is as follows:   Geoff Charles Ogilvy (born 11 June 1977) is an Australian professional golfer . He won the 2006 U.S. Open and has also won three World Golf Championships . , , , Ogilvy was born in Adelaide , South Australia to an English-born father Mike and Australian born mother Judy. He turned professional in May 1998 and he won a European Tour card at that year's Qualifying school . He played on the European Tour in 1999 and 2000, finishing 65th in his first season and improving to 48th in his second. He joined the U.S. based PGA Tour in 2001, and finished in the top 100 in each of his first five seasons. His first professional tournament win came in 2005 at the PGA Tour's Chrysler Classic of Tucson . In February 2006 he beat Davis Love III in the final of the 2006 WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship . , Ogilvy won his first major championship at the 2006 U.S. Open , becoming the first Australian to win a men's golf major since Steve Elkington at the 1995 PGA Championship . Ogilvy finished his round with a champion's flourish, making improbable pars on each of the last two holes. He holed a 30-foot chip shot at the 17th, and then got up-and-down for par at the 18th, dropping a downhill six-footer for his final stroke as all his competitors collapsed around him. Phil Mickelson and Colin Montgomerie needed pars on the final hole to win, or bogeys to tie with Ogilvy, but they ruined their chances by producing double-bogey sixes to give Ogilvy a dramatic win. Jim Furyk needed par to force a playoff but bogeyed the final hole. , This success moved Ogilvy into the top ten of the Official World Golf Rankings for the first time, at Number 8. He reached his highest placing to date on 9 July 2006 when he was ranked Number 7, and he returned to that rank in February 2007 after finishing as runner-up to Henrik Stenson while defending his title at the 2007 WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship . He has spent over 120 weeks in the top-10 of the rankings.   , Ogilvy won the 2008 WGC-CA Championship , his second World Golf Championship title, by one shot shooting 17-under par. It was his first PGA Tour win since the 2006 U.S. Open . In his next start at the 2008 Shell Houston Open he finished tied for 2nd moving him up to number 5 in the Official World Golf Rankings .  In late June 2008, he rose to 3rd in the rankings.  In 2009 Ogilvy continued his success at the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship defeating Paul Casey . Ogilvy moved into second alone in World Golf Championship wins. This win brought him up to 4th in the Official World Golf Rankings. , In January 2010, Ogilvy won the SBS Championship , the opening event of the 2010 PGA Tour.  , Ogilvy won the 2014 Barracuda Championship, a tournament that uses the modified Stableford scoring system, with a winning score of 49 points. It was his first victory in over 4 years. , Ogilvy and his wife Juli have three children. , PGA Tour playoff record (1–0) , Results not in chronological order prior to 2015. , * Complete through the 2013–14 season. , Professional , Ogilvy's current equipment effective as of the 2011 season.  Michael Richard Weir , CM , O.Ont (born May 12, 1970) is a Canadian professional golfer on the PGA Tour . He spent over 110 weeks in the top-10 of the Official World Golf Ranking between 2001 and 2005.  He is best known for winning the Masters in 2003 . , , , Born in Sarnia , Ontario , Weir grew up in the Sarnia suburb of Brights Grove . He learned to play golf at Huron Oaks Golf Course, and was coached there by Steve Bennett. Like many Canadian boys, his first sport was hockey ; he was a natural left-handed shot, and began playing golf left-handed as a follow-on from his hockey experience. Weir was fortunate in that the son of his godfather played left-handed and had a partial set of spare clubs that he handed down to Weir—three woods and four irons. From his earnings as a caddy and pro shop worker, he purchased a left-handed wedge that he used until the grip wore out. When he was 12, he won a junior tournament in which the first prize was a complete set of irons; he replaced his original four irons with the clubs he had won.  While working at Huron Oaks, he also met Jack Nicklaus at age 11, when the golf legend came to the club to play an exhibition. This meeting set the stage for a pivotal moment in Weir's career.  , Weir gave up hockey in his early teenage years when he realized he would not grow past average size and that golf was his best sport. However, he had received advice that he might be an even better golfer if he switched to playing right-handed. In 1984, Weir decided to write Nicklaus for advice as to whether to make the switch. Nicklaus quickly wrote back and told Weir, , "If you are a good player left-handed, don't change anything—especially if that feels natural to you."  , He never thought of switching to right-handed play again, and still keeps the letter, now framed, in his home.  , He attended St. Michael Elementary School in Brights Grove and St. Clair Secondary School in Sarnia, winning the Ontario Junior Championship in 1988. He is a graduate of Brigham Young University (majoring in Recreation Management), and won the Ontario Amateur Championship in 1990 and 1992. He tied for 2nd at the 1991 Canadian Amateur Championship , and finished clear second in that event in 1992. He was an All-American selection at BYU in 1992 on the Second Team.  , He turned professional in 1992, and started on the Canadian Professional Golf Tour , where he won three events. He also played some events on the Asian PGA Tour early in his career. He first reached the PGA Tour in 1998 , but lost his playing privileges, due to insufficient performance. He had to requalify, and did so by being medalist at the final Qualifying School tournament. , Weir's first PGA Tour win came at the 1999 Air Canada Championship in Surrey, British Columbia . The victory made him the first Canadian to win a PGA Tour event in Canada in 45 years. , Weir began the 2003 season in impressive fashion, winning two tournaments on the West Coast Swing. He first won the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic in Palm Springs, California , and then followed with a win at Riviera Country Club near Los Angeles, at the Nissan Open . , In April, Weir won the prestigious 2003 Masters Tournament at Augusta, Georgia , one of the four major championships . He is the first Canadian male ever to win a professional major championship ( Sandy Somerville and Gary Cowan each won the U.S. Amateur when it was considered a major tournament). When he won The Masters, Weir became only the second left-handed golfer to win any of the four majors, the other being Bob Charles , who won the British Open forty years earlier. Weir is a right-hander who plays golf left-handed, a trait he shares with fellow PGA Tour pro and major champion Phil Mickelson . , In June, Weir tied for third at the U.S. Open , the second of the majors, which moved him to third in the Official World Golf Ranking , his highest ranking.  For his outstanding play in 2003, Weir won the Lou Marsh Trophy for outstanding Canadian athlete of the year. He maintained his position in the world's top ten ranking into 2004 . , In February 2004, Weir joined the ranks of a select few players including Ben Hogan to win consecutive championships at the Nissan Open , becoming the sixth player in Nissan Open history to notch back-to-back wins, and the first since Corey Pavin (1994, 1995). He was the 20th player to post multiple wins at the Nissan Open. , Weir went more than three-and-a-half years after his second win at the Nissan Open before his next win on tour. Working with Mike Bennett and Andy Plummer on a new swing showed some positive results (two top tens, including a tie for eighth at the Open Championship ). While working on the swing changes, he had dipped in the world rankings to a point that he did not automatically qualify for the Presidents Cup matches in 2007 , held at the Royal Montreal Golf Club . He got to play in the tournament he helped bring to Canada because he was picked by International team captain Gary Player as one of his discretionary selections.  This turned out to be an inspired choice as Weir went on to beat current number one Tiger Woods in a heated match, despite his team losing the Cup. When asked, Weir enthusiastically stated, "When I look back on my career, this may be even more special than winning the Masters."  His swing changes, coupled with the momentum from his Presidents Cup performance, culminated in his first win in over three years at the Fry's Electronics Open in October 2007. This victory in Arizona tied Weir with George Knudson for most PGA Tour wins by a Canadian, with eight. , Golf Digest magazine of March 2010 reported that Weir had returned to work with instructor Mike Wilson, who was his coach during his most successful period in the early 2000s. Weir was going away from the 'stack-and-tilt' method and working on reclaiming his swing as developed with Wilson.  On October 2010 Weir said he was planning to rely less on swing coach Mike Wilson, since he thought he did not need a teacher but a set of eyes, whether it's Mike or someone else . I'm taking ownership of what I'm trying to accomplish when I make a swing ... I feel like I don't need anybody to tell me what to do. I know what I need to do, added Weir.  On July 2011, Weir rehired 'stack and tilt' creators Mike Bennett and Andy Plummer .  , Weir's 2010 season ended early with a torn ligament on his right elbow. He began 2011 on a major medical exemption, which means he would have to earn the difference between his 2010 earning and $786,977 (equivalent to Troy Merritt , who finished with the 125th and final exempt spot on the Tour) in five starts to retain full Tour status. Otherwise, he could use one of two special exemptions he holds because of career earnings to play the PGA Tour in 2011, but that is something he hoped to avoid doing.  Weir had trouble making cuts and did not finish high enough to retain significant status on the Tour, being demoted to the Past Champions category, among the lowest in the PGA Tour exemption priority rankings. , After an injury plagued 2010 and 2011 seasons, Weir began his 2012 season at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am after six months out of the game recovering from elbow surgery. As Weir did not have full status on the PGA Tour , he activated his European Tour membership for 2012, which came after he won the Masters in 2003. He missed the cut at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am , finishing at +6. He missed his next two cuts on the PGA Tour following Pebble Beach but made the weekend on the European Tour in the Open de Andalucia . Weir used a special exemption reserved for the top 25 on the career PGA Tour money list to regain his PGA Tour playing privileges for 2013.  , Playing on a top 50 career money list exemption for 2014, Weir nearly earned his first win in seven years at the Byron Nelson Championship , but finished two strokes behind Brendon Todd for his first top ten since 2010. The runner-up finish was Weir's best result since his last win in 2007. The result elevated Weir over 350 places in the world rankings up to 238th. Though Weir missed the FedEx Cup playoffs, he finished inside the top 125 on the money list, which leaves him exempt for the 2014–15 season. , Weir currently lives in Sandy, Utah , with his wife Bricia and their two daughters. Weir's home course used to be the Taboo Resort in Gravenhurst, Ontario , until the course dropped his name in 2008. , In June 2007, it was announced that Weir would be appointed a Member of the Order of Canada . He was appointed to the Order of Ontario in 2003. , Creekside Estate Winery, near Lincoln, Ontario , began producing wine for Weir in 2005, and as of 2007 had released a Merlot , Chardonnay , Sauvignon blanc , Cabernet-Merlot, Cabernet-Shiraz and Icewine . His Icewine Vidal was named by Travel and Leisure Golf magazine as one of its top five golf-related wines. Weir announced plans to open his own winery in the summer of 2008.  , On December 17, 2007, The Thomson Corporation (now Thomson Reuters ) announced it will be the lead corporate sponsor for Weir for a five-year term beginning in January 2008,  replacing Bell Canada. , Weir's caddy, from 1999 to 2010, was fellow Ontarian Brennan Little. In January 2011, Weir hired veteran caddy Pete Bender.  , In 2010, Weir was selected as #12 on a list of Canada's 100 Greatest Athletes of All Time.  , A park in Brights Grove, Ontario is named for Weir, located at 43°01′37″N 82°16′41″W ﻿ / ﻿ 43.027°N 82.278°W ﻿ / 43.027; -82.278 . , PGA Tour playoff record (3–2) , 1 Defeated Len Mattiace in sudden death playoff on the first hole. , *As of the 2013–14 season. , * Complete through the 2013–14 season , Professional  Retief Goosen (born 3 February 1969) is a South African professional golfer who was in the top ten in the Official World Golf Ranking for over 250 weeks between 2001 and 2007.  His main achievements have been two U.S. Open wins (in 2001 and 2004) and heading the European Tour Order of Merit (money list) in 2001 and 2002. , , , Goosen was born in Pietersburg (now Polokwane), South Africa. He is the son of Theo Goosen, a local real estate agent and amateur golfer who introduced the game of golf to Retief at an early age. Theo took a strict approach to parenting. "Look, I never made life easy for my kids," said Theo "We never spoiled them. We never pleasurized them." Goosen even admits that his father put pressure on him.  When Goosen was fifteen he was golfing with his friend, Henri Potgieter, at Pietersburg Golf Club. They were playing through a small drizzle when lightning struck. Henri was knocked from his feet and when he stood back up saw Retief lying on the ground on his back. Henri retold the story to Golf World "I wanted to know his reaction. What I did see was his golf clubs and his golf bag. Then I saw him lying on his back. His tongue was down his throat and his eyes were backward, and he was breathing weird. He had no clothes on; they'd been burned from his body. I remember picking up his spectacles. I didn't know what to do. It looked like he was dead. I was screaming for help. Fortunately, there were guys teeing off on the 12th hole. They came running toward us. From then on, I can't remember much. They picked him up and put him in a car." Goosen's shoes had disintegrated from his feet, his underwear and watch band had melted to his body. He retains a scar on his wrist from the incident. He was unable to put his shoes on for weeks afterwards. He recovered enough to grab another set of clubs and take up the game a few weeks later. Goosen doesn't remember the events that happened, but his father took his son's survival as a sign from God of good things to come.  , Goosen turned professional in October 1990, following a win in the South African Amateur Championship of the same year in July. He was medalist at the European Tour 's Qualifying School in 1992 and enjoyed success on the Tour between 1992 and 2000, but it was not until 2001 where he made his name in America with a U.S. Open win on a very tough Southern Hills Country Club golf course. He nearly lost his chance at victory after three putting from 12 feet, missing a two foot put on the final green, but managed to recover to make a playoff with the 1996 PGA Championship winner Mark Brooks . Goosen dominated the next day's 18-hole playoff, eventually winning by two strokes. Later that summer, he completed his second wire-to-wire victory of the year at The Scottish Open at Loch Lomond . He finished 2001 with three wins, 11 top-tens and the European Tour Order of Merit and followed it up with another in 2002 he also became the first non-European to win the Order of Merit. After his third win of the 2001 season, he rose to a career-high 11th in the world rankings. In 2002, he won on both the PGA Tour and European Tour for the second straight year, a feat that would last for three more years. He won a second U.S. Open in 2004, where he had 11 one-putts in the final round at a tough test at Shinnecock Hills Golf Club . He then rose to his career high world ranking position of 3rd. He won on the PGA Tour each year from 2001 to 2005 with six wins, and he added a seventh win in March 2009 at the Transitions Championship . , After winning medalist at the European Tour's Q-School in 1992, Goosen played 3 seasons before winning his first event in 1996 at the Slaley Hall Northumberland Challenge . He won the Alfred Dunhill Cup in 1997 and 1998 with Ernie Els and David Frost . , Goosen played in the 2000 Presidents Cup where the U.S. team won, but Goosen scored 2 points in total in his 1st appearance in the event. , Goosen won four times on the European Tour between 1996 and 2000, before his breakthrough year in the United States with his 2001 U.S. Open win. , Two weeks after the U.S. Open win of 2001, Goosen won on the European Tour at The Scottish Open at Loch Lomond . This win secured Goosen the Player of the Month for June 2001 on the European Tour. He would add another win late in the year and win the European Tour Order of Merit and the Player of the Year on the European Tour. , Goosen was in contention in the U.S. Open in 2001 all week, and battled Mark Brooks and Stewart Cink during the final round. After Brooks had posted 4 under par, Goosen at 5 under coming up 18, and Cink having a chance to win until he three-putted the 71st hole leaving the battle for the trophy a two man race between Brooks and Goosen. After Goosen hit his approach to 12 feet on 18, he had 2 putts to win and victory seemed imminent. Goosen put his first putt past the hole and was left with 22 inches for victory. The putt was pulled by Goosen and ran across the right edge of the cup and Goosen had to knock in a putt longer than his previous putt to force a playoff with Brooks. , Goosen won the Monday 18-hole playoff by 2 strokes with an even-par 70 and Brooks shooting a 2-over-par 72. It was Goosen's first victory on U.S. soil. He would finish 47th on the PGA Tour money list with over $1,047,000 in a restricted season shared between the PGA and European Tours. , A good stretch for Goosen. He won the European Tour Order of Merit for a second straight year for a season that included a win at the Johnnie Walker Classic by a commanding margin of 8 strokes. He had eight other top-10s on the season, two runner-up finishes, including a 2nd place to Tiger Woods at The Masters . Goosen won the money title in the end by a slim margin over Northern Ireland's Darren Clarke . Goosen would also grab his second win in the U.S. at the BellSouth Classic in April on the PGA Tour. , In 2003, Goosen won his second Trophee Lancome title in its final playing. It was his lone win on the European Tour in 2003, though he had five other top-10s on the season. 2003 was the first season where he played most of his events in the United States. He picked up his 3rd tour win at the Chrysler Championship in October. His 2003 season included 17 of 19 cuts made, 9 top-10s, a win and over $3,100,000 in earnings. , Goosen played in the Presidents Cup for the International team where he scored 3 points for the week that ended with a tie because Tiger Woods and Ernie Els were involved in a playoff that was not over at sundown, so captains Gary Player and Jack Nicklaus decided that the 2003 matches would be a draw. , Goosen's second major title came at the 2004 U.S. Open at Shinnecock Hills . The USGA had prepared extremely tough conditions which were later argued by players as "unfair."  The final-round scoring average of 78.7 was the second-highest since World War II, with only Goosen and Phil Mickelson finishing under par.  He eventually won by two strokes over Mickelson as both men shot 1-over-par rounds of 71. Goosen had 11 one-putt greens on Sunday and 31 one-putts for the championship. He only needed 24 putts on the day in what is remembered as one of the most clutch putting performances in U.S. Open history. 2004 was the start of the "Big Five Era" which is used in describing the era in golf where Tiger Woods , Vijay Singh , Ernie Els , Retief Goosen, and Phil Mickelson dominated the game of golf. The five switched up and down the top five positions in the Official World Golf Ranking ; most notably Singh's derailing of Woods as the number one golfer in the world. The five stayed, for the most part in the top five spots from 2004 till the start of 2007. Nine majors were won between them many fighting against each other head to head. , Goosen would win the Tour Championship in November 2004, coming from four strokes behind on the final round with a 6-under-par 64 to win by four strokes over Tiger Woods . It was his second Tour win on the season and it secured him a career high 6th place finish on the 2004 money list.  , In 2005 Goosen was in pursuit of his third U.S. Open and his second in a row, leading by three strokes after three rounds of golf at the Pinehurst No. 2 course. However, he disappeared in the final round with a score of 81 and he ended up finishing in 11th place. In an interview after his round Goosen said "I messed up badly. I obviously threw this one away."  , Even though Goosen threw away the U.S. Open in 2005 finishing T11, it was his worst finish in a major in 2005, finishing T3 at The Masters , T5 at The Open Championship and a T6 at the PGA Championship . he would win The International  by one point over Brandt Jobe for his 6th career win. His 2005 season included 8 top 10s, and over $3.4 million in earnings. , Goosen played in his 3rd Presidents Cup in 2005, at an event where he defeated Tiger Woods in Sunday's singles matches and finished with 4 points. The final score was 18½–15½ for the United States.  , Goosen has been a consistent player: he has won internationally every year since 1995, and also won a PGA Tour event every year from 2001 to 2005. Additionally, he has spent a long period of time in the top 5 of the Official World Golf Ranking , and in 2006 reached a career-best third place after a runner-up finish at The Players Championship to Stephen Ames and 5 other top 10s on the season. He also won on the European Tour at the South African Airways Open and at the Volkswagen Masters-China on the Asian Tour . He also won his match during the challenge season at the People vs. The Pros  event. But from early 2007 to late 2008 he had had a dip in performance. , 2007 was an average season for Goosen's standards; a victory at the Qatar Masters in January – when he finished birdie-eagle for the win, looked to be a sign of things to come along with being the European Tour player of the month in January. Goosen posed a threat on the final day at The Masters . He held the lead till a bogey on the par-three twelve, Goosen failed to rebound parring each of his six remaining holes. He finished tied for second, two behind Zach Johnson . However after the Masters Goosen's best finish throughout the rest of the year was a tie for 15th at the BMW Asian Open, and he ended 2007 having slumped down to 26th in the world rankings. , Goosen's statistics on the PGA Tour at this time were surprisingly low. He was outside the top 100 in ball striking, greens in regulation, driving accuracy, distance, and putting. But this was due mainly, Goosen said, to the swing changes he had made, his hiring a swing coach for the first time in his career, and how he had lost all confidence in his game.  , He was again a part of the International team at the 2007 Presidents Cup at the Royal Montreal Golf Club , just outside of Montreal, Quebec , Canada. It was his fourth appearance in the event. He finished the week with 2 points including a singles win of 2&1 over Jim Furyk on Sunday.  , At the start of 2008, Goosen withdrew from the Qatar Masters as defending champion due to problems with his vision after undergoing corrective laser surgery ten days before the tournament began. He was forced to return to his home in London, England for further treatment. In March, he showed a form that had left him for almost a year and resulted in a tie for second at the WGC-CA Championship . He putted exceptionally well thanks to his old Yes! putter he won both his U.S. Open titles with and named "Tracy" after his wife. , Before the tournament Goosen was ranked 40th in the world, which was the lowest he had been ranked since 10 June 2001 (a week before the U.S. Open). His best finish in 2009 other than the runner-up at the WGC-CA Championship , was at the other stroke play WGC event, the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational , where he finished T4, two strokes behind winner Vijay Singh . It was his second of two top five finishes on the season. Although showing some signs of his old self, Goosen had a very inconsistent year finishing 72nd on the PGA Tour money list. In June 2008, he made controversial comments about fellow golfer Tiger Woods , alleging that Woods was faking the severity of his injuries at the 2008 U.S. Open .  Goosen apologized for the comments saying he was not being serious when he made the claim. , His game was on the rise in late 2008. Late in the 2008 season Goosen replaced Vijay Singh because of injury in the Asian Tour's Iskandar Johor Open . Goosen won the tournament for his only win of 2008. The win also extended his streak of winning a professional golf event every year since 1995.  , Goosen continued his good form from late 2008 into 2009. With two international wins in three months, it was a sign of good form to come throughout the season. , He started his 2009 season with two wins on two major tours. Goosen won his second event in four worldwide starts on the Sunshine Tour , at the Africa Open in January, where he came from behind with a final round 65 on Sunday to win by one stroke over four players and take the trophy. Goosen said he'd been struggling with his putting for the last few seasons, he put a belly putter in his bag for a few weeks to get his stroke back .  He played with it for 3 weeks in January and February, starting at the Buick Invitational . He played well with it at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am , where he was the 36 hole leader. He went on to finish 3rd for the rained out 54 hole event. He then won his seventh PGA Tour title at the Transitions Championship in March 2009. He made only five bogeys all week on the tough Copperhead Course at Innisbrook Resort and Golf Club in Palm Harbor , Florida. He shot all four rounds under par, and finished at −8, to win by one stroke over Charles Howell III and Brett Quigley . His putting was exceptional during that week, making 55 of 55 putts from 5 feet and less, including a 4½ foot putt for par on 18 for the win that fell in the left edge of the cup. Goosen credited Gary Player with inspiring him to rededicate himself to a new diet and fitness program.  This win vaulted Goosen to number 22 in the Official World Golf Ranking , his highest position since November 2007. , With his rededication to his game with his work with his swing coach, his newfound fitness regime and his renewed, refreshed sense of confidence, Goosen dramatically improved his statistics in 2009 from those of the 2007–2008 seasons before. He moved from driving distance from outside the top 100 to 82nd, to inside the top 40 in putting, 20th in scoring average and 49th in the all-around statistic. , After a tie for 16th place at the U.S. Open at Bethpage Black , Goosen was in contention the very next week in Munich, Germany at the BMW International Open . He led after the first three rounds at 17 under par, two ahead of Bernhard Langer and three ahead of Nick Dougherty .  On Sunday, Goosen did not putt as well as he did the first three rounds, only managing a 1-under 71. He finished the week in 3rd, four strokes behind eventual winner Dougherty. , After a week off, Goosen was in contention the week before The Open Championship at the Barclays Scottish Open at Loch Lomond Golf Club in Glasgow. After a first round of 3-under par 68, he shot a second round 63, which was started by an un-Goosen like opening tee shot. He pulled out a 3-wood off the first tee, and barely got the ball airborne as Goosen topped it and put it in the right rough, as a couple of grouse scuttled for cover. It would not shake the unflappable Goosen as he would shoot a second round 63 to pull two clear of Adam Scott after two rounds.  He shot a disappointing final round of 73 to finish in a tie for 6th.  , Goosen added a 3rd top-10 finish in as many starts worldwide at the 2009 Open Championship at Turnberry . He contended for most of the week and had a share of the lead momentarily during the 3rd round. He finished the event in a tie for 5th, 2 strokes out the of the playoff between Stewart Cink and Tom Watson . Goosen almost picked up his second PGA Tour win of the season at the RBC Canadian Open the following week. Goosen faced Nathan Green in a playoff after the two players shot −18 after four rounds of play. Goosen had a six-foot birdie putt to win the tournament on the first playoff hole but missed it. Green had a twelve-foot birdie putt to win the tournament on the second hole and missed it but it would not matter. Goosen had to sink a nine-foot par putt to extend the playoff but he missed it, giving Green his first PGA Tour victory. , Goosen had another close call at victory during the 2009 FedEx Cup Playoffs at the Deutsche Bank Championship , where he was the 54-hole co-leader with Sean O'Hair and Steve Stricker , but he shot a final round of Even Par to finish T8.  , Goosen added 4 consecutive top 10 finishes in October and November; 6th at the Portugal Masters , 3rd at the Iskandar Johor Open , where he shot a third round 62, 9th at the Volvo World Match Play Championship and 10th at the WGC-HSBC Champions . , Goosen started his 2010 campaign in January with 3 consecutive top-10 finishes. He finished 6th at the SBS Championship , 4th at the Sony Open in Hawaii and 9th at the Qatar Masters . Goosen added a quarterfinal loss to Camilo Villegas in February at the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship , his best appearance in the event since 2006. Goosen had a good title defense at the Transitions Championship in March, where he finished 5th. A week later at the Arnold Palmer Invitational , Goosen finished in a tie for 4th, his fifth top-10 in seven 2010 PGA Tour events, and his 11th top-10 finish in his last 14 events worldwide. The 4th place finish moved Goosen to 15th in the Official World Golf Ranking. , On 27 April 2010, Goosen broke his toe while playing with his children.  /The injury caused Goosen to miss the Quail Hollow Championship and The Players Championship . On 18 May, in an incident separate to his toe injury, Goosen injured his hand. This injury caused Goosen to miss the BMW PGA Championship , one of the premier events on the European Tour. Goosen returned to the PGA Tour in June at the St. Jude Classic , the week before the U.S. Open .  He finished T15 at the St. Jude Classic. After the U.S. Open, Goosen flew to Canada to play in the Telus World Skins Game , where he won 5 skins. Two days after that, he played in the Travelers Championship , where he finished T5, his 6th top-10 finish of the season. , At the 2010 Open Championship at St Andrews , Goosen finished 6th, breaking par in all four rounds. It was Goosen's 7th top-10 finish of the season. Goosen had his first top-3 finish of the season in August at the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational , his 8th top-10 of the season. , After a 7th place finish at the BMW Championship , Goosen played in the final group on Sunday at The Tour Championship with eventual winner Jim Furyk . Goosen finished 3rd on his own. Goosen finished 10th in the final standings of the 2010 FedEx Cup Playoffs . He finished his 2010 PGA Tour season with 10 top-10s, and over $3.2 million in earnings. In December, Goosen finished runner-up to Ernie Els at the South African Open in Durban. Goosen finished at 24 under par, one stroke behind Els. , Despite a strong start to the season, with two top-3 finishes by January, Goosen ended the year with his worst season since 1995. Goosen withdrew from both The Open Championship and the PGA Championship after poor first rounds, citing injuries. Goosen had to deal with back injuries for the entire second half of the 2011 season.  At the end of the year, he had dropped out of the top 50 in the world rankings for the first time in over a decade. , Goosen started his 2012 campaign on the European Tour with three consecutive starts in January in South Africa. He finished 3rd in the Africa Open , and 16th in the Joburg Open before finishing tied second with Ernie Els in the Volvo Golf Champions , losing to winner Branden Grace in a playoff.  Through the first three weeks of season, Goosen was second in the Race to Dubai . , For the first time since 1999, Goosen did not play in the Masters, as he was outside the Top 50 in the OWGR. , Goosen started his 2013 campaign internationally, finishing 20th at the Volvo Golf Champions and missing the cut at the Qatar Masters . Goosen made 9 starts on the PGA tour making 6 cuts, including 9th at AT&T National . He would reinjured is back at The Players Championship causing him to withdraw from the tournament. After months of time off, Goosen returned to action on the European Tour in September for two tournaments, finishing 63rd and 66th. , Goosen showed hopeful signs during the 2013–14 season. Focused only on the PGA Tour, Goosen made 19 of the 26 cuts, including 14 straight cuts to finish the season, while earning over $825k. , Goosen started off the 2014–15 PGA Tour season with a 3rd place finish at the Frys.com Open . Goosen finished 2014 making 2 out of 3 cuts, finishing 33rd at the CIMB Classic and 65th at the OHL Classic. He held the lead at the 2015 Northern Trust Open for the first three rounds. A final round 75 dropped him to a tie for 8th finish. , Goosen is known for his extremely calm demeanor, a trait that has earned him the nickname "The Iceman" on the PGA Tour. He is also affectionately called "The Goose."  The term unflappable is a term commonly connect with Retief because of his attitude on the course.  Goosen's mother attributes her son's calm demeanor because of the effects left on Goosen after he was struck by lightning.  , Goosen is now married with a son and daughter, and has homes in Virginia Water , Surrey , England and in Lake Nona Golf & Country Club in Orlando, Florida , U.S. as well as retaining residence in Polokwane , South Africa. , Goosen is friends with golf icon Gary Player and regularly plays in the Gary Player Invitational series to help raise funds for needy children in both China and South Africa as well as around the world. , Retief has also played in the Nelson Mandela Invitational hosted by Gary Player in South Africa, honoring former South African President Nelson Mandela . He has won the event twice, in betterball in 2000 with Allan Henning ,  and in 2006 with Bobby Lincoln . He also won the fourball event in 2008 with Costantino Rocca , and Alan Pearson. , Goosen is also known for his interest and business in wine. He owns his own vineyard in Garden Route, South Africa. The vineyard is situated 2500 feet above sea level and was deemed a great place to plant in 1993. He started growing plants on the vineyard in 2005, and labeled his wine The Goose . The Goose Expression Cabernet Sauvignon Shiraz wine won the bronze medal in 2008 from the Decanter World Wide Wine.  , In 2009, Goosen won awards for both his Goose wines. This follows on from last year's Bronze Medal for The Expression Cabernet Sauvignon / Shiraz 2005. 2009 brought a Silver Medal each by The Decanter World Wine Award 2009 for The Expression Cabernet Sauvignon / Shiraz 2007 and The Goose Sauvignon Blanc 2008. , Course(s) under construction: , PGA Tour playoff record (1–1) , 1 Co-sanctioned with the Asian Tour , European Tour playoff record (2–3) , 1 co-sanctioned with the European Tour , 1 Defeated Brooks in 18-hole playoff: Goosen 70 (E), Brooks 72 (+2). , * As of 23 November 2014. , These figures are from the respective tour's official sites. Note that there is double counting of money earned (and wins) in the majors and World Golf Championships since they became official events on both tours. , Green background for Tour's leading money winner. Yellow background for top-10 on Tour's money list. , Professional , As of the 2010 Transitions Championship   Matthew Gregory Kuchar (born June 21, 1978) is an American professional golfer who plays on the PGA Tour and formerly the Nationwide Tour . He has won seven times on the PGA Tour, with these wins spanning over 12 years. He briefly enjoyed success in the early 2000s before suffering a slump where he struggled to maintain his playing status on the PGA Tour. He rejuvenated himself and built a new, one-plane swing from 2008 onward leading to improved results. He is renowned as one of the most consistent players on the tour, having earned close to $15 million in prize money and recorded 30 top-10 finishes between 2009-2012. This included finishing as the PGA Tour's leading money winner in 2010. , Kuchar won the The Players Championship in 2012 , the flagship event of the PGA Tour, his biggest tournament victory to date.  As a result, he moved to a career high number five in the world rankings and has spent over 40 weeks ranked inside its top-10. In February 2013 , Kuchar won his first World Golf Championship event, defeating Hunter Mahan in the final of the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship .  , , , Born in Winter Park, Florida , Kuchar graduated from Seminole High School in Sanford in 1996. He attended Georgia Tech in Atlanta , where he was a two-time first-team All-American on the Yellow Jackets' golf team. After narrowly losing in the semi-finals of the 1996 U.S. Amateur championship to Tiger Woods , Kuchar won the title in 1997 (his final amateur event before turning pro). He received the Haskins Award in 1998 as the nation's top collegiate golfer, and was the low amateur at both The Masters and U.S. Open . He turned pro in 2000 after earning his bachelor's degree in management. One of Kuchar's teammates at Georgia Tech was future PGA Tour professional Bryce Molder .  , Kuchar's first win on the PGA Tour came at the Honda Classic in 2002 . A tough year in 2005 saw him win under $403,000, 159th on the money list, which caused a loss of his tour card. He failed to regain it at qualifying school and played on the Nationwide Tour in 2006 . Kuchar won its Henrico County Open and finished tenth on the Nationwide Tour money list to earn back his PGA Tour card for 2007 . He retained his card for the next two seasons by finishing 115th on the money list in 2007 and 70th in 2008 . , Seven years after his first PGA Tour win, Kuchar won for a second time during the Fall Series in 2009 at the Turning Stone Resort Championship . He prevailed in a playoff over Vaughn Taylor that concluded on Monday due to darkness on Sunday evening.  , Kuchar made the Ryder Cup team in 2010 , taking the eighth and last merit position on the 12-man U.S. squad on August 15. At the time, Kuchar led the PGA Tour in top-10 finishes for the year, but had not won a tournament in 2010 . The winless streak ended two weeks later at The Barclays on August 29, which was played at the Ridgewood Country Club in Paramus, New Jersey ; Kuchar defeated Martin Laird on the first hole of a sudden-death playoff.  , Kuchar won the Vardon Trophy  and Byron Nelson Award in 2010 for lowest scoring average and the PGA Tour's Arnold Palmer Award for leading the money list.  , Kuchar started off 2011 well with three consecutive top-10 finishes in the first three weeks of the season. He finished T6 at the opening PGA Tour event, the Hyundai Tournament of Champions on Maui . The following week at the Sony Open in Hawaii , he played his way to a T5 finish and then at the Bob Hope Classic achieved a T7 finish. , In February, Kuchar reached the semi-finals of the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship , where he suffered a 6&5 defeat by eventual champion Luke Donald . In the 3rd place playoff match, he defeated fellow American Bubba Watson , 2&1. Previously during the week Kuchar had beaten Anders Hansen on the 22nd hole in round one, Bo Van Pelt in round two, Rickie Fowler in round three and Y.E. Yang at the quarter-final stage. , Kuchar finished tied for second at the Memorial Tournament at Muirfield Village in June 2011 behind Steve Stricker .  This was his eighth top-10 finish of the season and took him to his highest ranking to date of world number six. Kuchar finished second at The Barclays , two strokes behind the winner, Dustin Johnson . The tournament was shortened to 54 holes due to Hurricane Irene . This finish moved him to second in the FedEx Cup standings. Kuchar and Gary Woodland combined to win the Omega Mission Hills World Cup in November.  , Kuchar had his best performance in a major championship at The Masters when he finished in a tie for third. Kuchar was tied for the lead on the back nine on Sunday, but bogeyed the par three 16th and finished two strokes out of the playoff between Bubba Watson and Louis Oosthuizen . , Kuchar won the biggest tournament of his career in May when he won The Players Championship at TPC Sawgrass in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida . He shot a final round of 70 (−2) to win by two strokes over runners-up Rickie Fowler , Martin Laird , Ben Curtis , and Zach Johnson . He entered the final round in the last group, one stroke behind Kevin Na . After bogeying the first hole, he played a near-perfect round, except for a three-putt bogey on the 17th, to hold off the challengers. The win elevated Kuchar to a career high of number five in the world rankings. , He won the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship in February, defeating Hunter Mahan 2&1 in the final. During the final, Kuchar built up an early lead and was 4 up at the turn. Mahan mounted a comeback on the back nine, winning four of the next seven holes to trail by just one with two to play. Mahan's wild drive on the par-4 17th put him in trouble, and after Kuchar knocked his approach close, Mahan failed to chip in for par and conceded the hole, which ended the match and gave Kuchar his first World Golf Championship title.  Throughout the week, Kuchar was never more than one down in any of his matches and only trailed three times on his way to the win. He defeated Hiroyuki Fujita , Sergio García , Nicolas Colsaerts , Robert Garrigus and Jason Day en route to the final. Kuchar moved back into the world's top 10 after this victory. His second win in 2013 came at the Memorial Tournament in early June. , In the final round of the Valero Texas Open in March, Kuchar held a share of the lead with nine holes to play but bogeyed the 10th and 11th holes and finished T-4.  The next week, he had a four-stroke lead going into the final round at the Shell Houston Open but lost a playoff to Matt Jones ' 42-yard chip-in on the first extra hole.  Kuchar was again in contention the following week at the Masters Tournament , where he was tied for the lead on Sunday before four-putting the fourth hole and finishing T-5. , A week later, Kuchar won for the seventh time on the PGA Tour with a one stroke victory at the RBC Heritage . He shot a final-round 64, which included a chip-in birdie from a greenside bunker on the 18th hole to come from four shots behind and claim victory.  Kuchar held the lead after the opening round, but followed this with 73-70 over rounds two and three to fall four shots back going into the final round. He birdied seven of his opening eleven holes in the final round, to move clear of the field. However he three-putted from within four feet on the 17th hole to make bogey and fall back into a tie with Luke Donald . After hitting his approach to the 18th hole into a greenside bunker, Kuchar holed out for birdie and moved one shot ahead of Donald once again. Donald was unable to birdie any of the last three holes and Kuchar claimed the victory.  , Kuchar is married to the former tennis player Sybi Parker, who was a tennis player at Georgia Tech, and they live at St. Simons Island in Georgia. Their two sons are Cameron Cole and Carson Wright. Kuchar is a Christian .  , PGA Tour playoff record (2–1) , Results not in chronological order prior to 2015. , * As of the 2013–14 season. , Amateur , Professional , As of April 3, 2013:   Justin Peter Rose (born 30 July 1980) is an English professional golfer who plays most of his golf on the PGA Tour , while keeping his membership on the European Tour . He won his first major championship at the 2013 U.S. Open at Merion Golf Club , becoming the first English player to win a major since Nick Faldo in 1996 and the first to win the U.S. Open since Tony Jacklin in 1970. , He first came to prominence as an amateur at the 1998 Open Championship where he holed a dramatic shot from the rough at the final hole to finish in a tie for fourth place. He won the 2007 Order of Merit on the European Tour and was ranked in the World top-ten for 34 weeks between November 2007 and July 2008. In March 2012, Rose won his first World Golf Championship event at the WGC-Cadillac Championship and as a result he re-entered the world top-10. After finishing second to Tiger Woods in the 2013 Arnold Palmer Invitational , he rose to a career high world ranking of 3rd.  , , , Rose was born in Johannesburg , South Africa, to English parents, and moved to England at the age of five where he started to play golf seriously at Tylney Park Golf Club, near his then home in Hook, Hampshire . Rose broke 70 for the first time at the age of 11, and was a plus three handicap by 14. He played in the Walker Cup in 1997 as a 17-year-old. , At the age of 18 Rose burst to world-wide prominence at 1998 Open Championship . He holed a dramatic shot from the rough from about 50 yards for birdie on the 18th hole, to finish in a tie for fourth. He won the silver medal for the low amateur. The following day he turned professional. , Rose is an advocate of sustainable golf facilities and works as an ambassador to the STRI's Golf Environment Awards, hosting receptions for winners.  , Rose married long-time girlfriend Kate Phillips, a former international gymnast, in December 2006. They have a house in Lake Nona Golf & Country Club in Orlando, Florida , and a riverside flat in the London suburb of Putney . Kate gave birth to their first child, a son, Leo, in February 2009.  In January 2012, they had a baby girl, Lottie.  , After turning professional, Rose struggled badly in his early career. He missed the cut in his first 21 consecutive events. He earned his first European Tour card in 1999 when he finished 4th at the qualifying school. The following season he failed to retain his card, and had to revisit the qualifying school, where he finished 9th. , Despite his early career struggles, Rose's career soon began to take off and he became established on the European Tour . In 2001 he opened the season with consecutive second place finishes in the country of his birth, South Africa. He went on to finish the year in top-40 on the Order of Merit. He won his first professional event, the Dunhill Championship in South Africa, in 2002, and followed this up with three further victories in that year. They included another win in South Africa at the Nashua Masters , a win on the Japanese Golf Tour at the Crowns Tournament, and then he won his second European Tour title at the Victor Chandler British Masters , edging out Ian Poulter in the final round. , In 2003, Rose reached number 33 in the Official World Golf Ranking . He earned enough money to claim his PGA Tour card as a non-member for 2004 after finishing with more money than the 125th ranked player on the money list. In 2004, he played mostly in America on the PGA Tour , while also maintaining his membership on the European Tour. He did not have a great year and slipped out of the top 50 in the world rankings, however he kept his tour card after earning in excess of a million dollars. , His ranking continued to fall in early 2005, and in March he announced that he was quitting the European Tour and concentrating on playing on the PGA Tour . This had no apparent effect on his poor form, and by the middle of the year he had fallen out of the World's top 100. In August of that year he made an about face by announcing his intention to return to the European Tour. Later the same week he had his best result of the year, leading the Buick Championship after three rounds before slipping to a third place finish. A couple of further good results followed late in the 2005 season, and he maintained his status on the PGA Tour after all. , In September 2006 at the Canadian Open , Rose led a PGA Tour tournament going into the final round for the first time. But he slipped up with a final round 74 which moved him down the field. He went on to finish 2nd at the Valero Texas Open and finished 47th on the money list with US$1.629 million in prize money. In November 2006 he won the Australian Masters , to claim his first title for four years. His renewed consistency, including a top 5 finish at the 2007 Masters which had seen him surpass his previous best world ranking, by reaching number 26 on 8 April 2007.  , Rose lost in a playoff at the 2007 BMW PGA Championship , but moved into the top twenty of the World Rankings for the first time, and by October had reached a new career high of 12 and became the top-ranked British golfer. Rose won the European Tour Order of Merit title for 2007 in a thrilling climax to the season at the Volvo Masters , which he won in a playoff on 4 November. His new world ranking of number 7 made him the top-ranked European golfer for the first time,  and he subsequently moved up to sixth in the rankings.  He has spent over 35 weeks in the top-10 since 2007.  Since the end of 2009, Canadian golf instructor Sean Foley coaches Rose.   , In 2010, Rose had a third place at the Honda Classic , and then he broke through with a victory at the Memorial Tournament with a final round 66 to win by three strokes over Rickie Fowler . This was his first win on American soil.  The next day, Rose had to try to qualify for the U.S. Open , along with runner up Rickie Fowler . Neither qualified which raised questions about the qualifications of the U.S. Open.  In his first tournament start since his win, at the Travelers Championship two weeks later, Rose led by three shots entering the final round, but fell away to a tie for ninth. His good form continued in the following week's tournament however, where he led by four shots after three rounds, and shot a final-round even par 70 to win his second PGA Tour event – the AT&T National . , In March 2011, Rose had a chance to add to his two PGA Tour titles won in 2010, when he entered the final round at the Transitions Championship with a one stroke lead. However he shot a three-over-par 74, which included four consecutive bogeys in the middle of the round, to finish five shots behind the champion Gary Woodland . In September 2011, Rose won the BMW Championship , the third of the four FedEx Cup playoff events at Cog Hill Golf & Country Club . This was his first title of the year and third career PGA Tour win. Rose entered the week on the playoff bubble at 34th in the standings, knowing that he needed a good finish to make the final event at East Lake Golf Club . The win elevated him to 3rd in the standings and the position of knowing that if he won the Tour Championship he would be the FedEx champion. A flawless round of 63 on the opening day helped Rose to build a four stroke advantage going into the final round, and even though there was a late wobble with a bogey at the par five 15th, Rose recovered and won by two strokes from John Senden .  Rose did not enjoy the same success at the Tour Championship though, when a second round 75 ended his chances of winning. He finished the tournament in a tie for 20th place and 5th on the overall FedEx Cup Standings. , In 2012, Rose won his first World Golf Championship event at the WGC-Cadillac Championship at Doral Golf Resort & Spa , when he finished one stroke ahead of American Bubba Watson . He entered the final round with a three stroke deficit from Watson, but after a solid final day's play, he took a two stroke advantage down the notoriously difficult par 4 18th finishing hole. He made bogey however after finding the right rough with his tee shot and could not get up and down from the back of the green. This left Watson requiring a birdie on the hardest hole on the course in the final group behind Rose. Watson hit a tremendous iron shot from the right hand rough to within ten feet, but could not make the resulting putt, leaving Rose to celebrate the biggest win of his career.  As a result Rose returned to the world's top ten, re-entering at number seven. , At the 2012 PGA Championship , Rose recorded his best ever performance in a major championship with a tie for 3rd finish. He shot a final round of 66 to jump 22 places up the leaderboard after three previous rounds of 69-79-70. , At the 2012 Ryder Cup , Rose played a major part in Team Europe's dramatic comeback against the United States, holing putts of 10, 35 and 12 feet on the final three holes to defeat Phil Mickelson 1-up in the singles and completing Europe's domination of the first five matches. , On 12 October 2012, Rose won the 8-man Turkish Airlines World Golf Final defeating Lee Westwood by a single stroke in the final. He also beat Tiger Woods by a stroke in the semi final, after progressing from his group with a 100% record. , On 25 March 2013, Rose finished second to Tiger Woods at the Arnold Palmer Invitational and rose to a career-high of third in the world rankings.  , On 16 June 2013, Rose won his maiden major championship at the U.S. Open at Merion Golf Club by two strokes over Phil Mickelson and Jason Day .  He became the first Englishman in 43 years to win the U.S. Open.  He also ended a 17 year major drought for English golfers since Nick Faldo 's win at the 1996 Masters . , Rose had entered the final round two strokes behind the leader Mickelson at one-over-par, after rounds of 71-69-71 during the first three days. He found himself further back after bogeys at the 3rd and 5th holes, sandwiching a birdie at the 4th. Successive birdies at the 6th and the 7th took him into a share of the lead. He misread his birdie putt at the 11th, which led to a bogey to fall back to one-over for the tournament, as simultaneously Mickelson was holing his second shot from the fairway at the 10th to move into the lead. However, Rose responded with birdies at the 12th and 13th, to get under-par for the tournament and into a one shot lead once again. He could not get up and down from a greenside bunker on the 14th and a further bogey on the 16th dropped Rose back to level for the day, but Mickelson made two bogeys at the 13th and 15th to remain one shot behind Rose. , After a par at the 17th, Rose hit a 4-iron approach to the tough 18th hole, which resulted in a final par of the day to reach the clubhouse at one-over-par. Mickelson, needing a birdie at the last to tie Rose and force a playoff, blocked his drive and could not reach the green in two. In a last attempt, Mickelson ran his pitch shot up to the pin, but could not hole it, which meant that Rose had claimed his first major championship.  Rose moved back up to world number three as a result, to equal his career high ranking. , On 29 June 2014, Rose won the Quicken Loans National , beating Shawn Stefani at the first hole of a playoff, with both players having tied after 72 holes.  Two weeks later, Rose won the Aberdeen Asset Management Scottish Open . , At the 2015 Masters Tournament , Rose finished in a tie for second with Phil Mickelson behind winner Jordan Spieth . Rose's 14-under 274 (as well as Mickelson's) was the lowest score by a runner-up in Masters history. , PGA Tour playoff record (1–1) , European Tour playoff record (1–1) , 1 Co-sanctioned by the European Tour , 1 Co-sanctioned by the European Tour , Results not in chronological order prior to 2015. , Amateur , Professional  Brandt Newell Snedeker (born December 8, 1980) is an American professional golfer who plays on the PGA Tour . He won the 2012 FedEx Cup with a victory in the season-ending Tour Championship at East Lake Golf Club . After this victory, he moved into the top ten of the Official World Golf Ranking for the first time in his career. In February 2013 , after winning the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am , he moved to a career high of number four in the world. , , , Snedeker was born in Nashville, Tennessee to Larry and Candice Snedeker. He was introduced to golf by his maternal grandmother, who managed a golf course in Missouri .  He attended Harding Academy, Montgomery Bell Academy and then Vanderbilt University , where he was initiated into Kappa Alpha Order by the Chi Chapter. He won the U.S. Amateur Public Links in 2003 before turning professional in 2004.  , Snedeker played on the Nationwide Tour from 2004 until 2006, when he finished 9th on the tour money list after victories at the Showdown at Somerby and the Permian Basin Charity Golf Classic , thus earning a PGA Tour spot for 2007. While on the Nationwide Tour, Snedeker recorded two wins, two runner ups, 12 tops 10s and earned $549,564. , Snedeker garnered immediate attention in January 2007 after shooting a course record equaling 61 in the first round of the Buick Invitational . He led the tournament by three strokes after 36 holes  but due to a 74 in the third round he finished in third place. He made eight consecutive cuts starting at the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic in January and ending at the Arnold Palmer Invitational in March. In that span he recorded three top-25 finishes. In four tournaments in April, he made two cuts including a finish of T16 at the Verizon Heritage . From May to early June, Snedeker made the cut in two of the four tournaments he entered, including a T12 finish at the prestigious Players Championship . , Snedeker then went on a hot streak starting at the Stanford St. Jude Championship on June 10. He finished in a tie for fifth at that tournament and by doing so surpassed $1 million in earnings on tour in 2007. He finished in a tie for 23rd at the U.S. Open the following week. In early July he recorded two top-10 finishes, including a tie for 10th at the Buick Open . This finish put Snedeker into the top 100 of the Official World Golf Ranking for the first time.  , Later in July, Snedeker finished in a tie for 7th at the Canadian Open . A fortnight later he played in the PGA Championship for the first time and finished in a tie for 18th place. Snedeker picked up his first PGA Tour victory the next week at the Wyndham Championship in North Carolina . This win propelled him to a world ranking of 55th.  The Wyndham Championship was the last regular season event before the FedEx Cup Playoffs . Snedeker entered the playoffs in 9th place in the point standings. He played in all four playoff events, recording finishes of missed cut, T47, T14 and T29. Snedeker finished in 20th place in the final points standings, which earned him a bonus check of $225,000. , Due to his fine debut performance on tour, Snedeker was named the PGA Tour Rookie of the Year for 2007.  He entered 29 PGA Tour events in 2007, making 23 cuts. He had one win, a third place finish, six top-10 finishes and 13 top-25 finishes.  He earned $2,836,643 which put him in 17th on the final money list and he finished 2007 ranked 47th in the world rankings. , Snedeker began the 2008 season with a tied for 10th finish at the Mercedes-Benz Championship . He finished tied for 9th at the FBR Open in February and tied for 8th at the PODS Championship in March. Snedeker recorded his first top-10 in a major at the 2008 Masters , where he finished tied for third. He went into the final round in second place, two strokes behind eventual winner Trevor Immelman but Snedeker shot a final round 77. Following his third place finish at the 2008 Masters Tournament , Snedeker reached a new high of 32nd in the world rankings. Snedeker finished in the top-10 for the second time in a major at the 2008 U.S. Open where he finished tied for 9th. For the rest of the year Snedeker struggled to maintain his early season consistency and did not record another top-10 finish for the season. Snedeker made 19 of 26 cuts on the year and recorded five top-10s, seven top-25s and earned $1,531,442 while finishing 34th in the FedEx Cup standings. , Snedeker struggled in 2009 , making only 14 of 26 cuts and failing to make the cut in 9 of his first 12 tournaments. His play improved in the summer as he had two consecutive top-5 finishes, a tie for 5th place at the AT&T National, and a tie for 2nd place at the John Deere Classic. These were followed by two more top-5 finishes at the RBC Canadian Open and the Wyndham Championship . Despite this mid season form he missed the cut in all four of the years majors. One factor contributing to Snedeker's uneven play in 2009 was his health. He missed seven consecutive tournaments in the middle of the season due to a rib injury. Snedeker finished the season 55th on the money list. , Snedeker started the 2010 season well with a top-10 finish at the Bob Hope Classic which he then followed up with a runner-up finish at the Farmers Insurance Open . Snedeker played consistently throughout the early season making eight consecutive cuts through to April. However he then missed five of his next seven cuts and did not record a single top-25 finish until the U.S. Open where Snedeker finished in a tie for 8th place at Pebble Beach Golf Links , his best ever finish in the U.S. Open. For the rest of season he played steadily and recorded two more top-10s at the Wyndham Championship and the end of season playoff event the Deutsche Bank Championship . Snedeker ended the year 48th on the money list. , Snedeker had an inconsistent start to the 2011 season missing his first cut at the Bob Hope Classic , but followed that up with two consecutive top-10 finishes at the Farmers Insurance Open and the Waste Management Phoenix Open . This was then followed by a further two missed cuts and a withdrawal from the Honda Classic to attend the birth of his first child. He returned to the tour with a 4th place finish at the Transitions Championship and then at the year's first major championship, the Masters Tournament finished in a tie for 15th. The following week Snedeker had a chance to win his second PGA Tour title at the Valero Texas Open but made a number of mistakes on the back nine on Sunday which cost him victory, eventually finishing alone in 4th. , Snedeker won his second PGA Tour title at The Heritage , beating Luke Donald in a sudden-death playoff at the third extra hole. Snedeker shot a seven-under-par round of 64 to recover from six shots back on the Sunday to tie Donald. The first two extra holes were parred by both players, but when Donald's par chip missed on the third extra hole, Snedeker sealed the win.  This victory took Snedeker to 38th in the world rankings. In November 2011, Snedeker underwent elective surgery on his right hip in order to fix a degenerative issue. This sidelined him for six to eight weeks at the end of year, however Snedeker confirmed he wished to have surgery at this stage in order to be fully fit for the 2012 season.  Snedeker finished the season 14th on the money list. , Snedeker won his third PGA Tour title at the Farmers Insurance Open at Torrey Pines . He started the day seven shots behind the leader Kyle Stanley , but after firing a final round 67 he was the leader in the clubhouse while the final group completed its rounds. Stanley had a three stroke lead coming to the final hole, but pitched his third shot into the water resulting in a triple bogey 8 to take the tournament to a playoff. After both players made birdie on the first extra hole, Snedeker prevailed with an up-and-down for par on the second hole after Stanley missed his par putt.  Snedeker entered the top 20 in the Official World Golf Ranking after his win. Snedeker had to withdraw from the 2012 U.S. Open due to a rib injury. , During a practice round for the 2012 Open Championship , Snedeker holed a driver from the tee on the 16th hole, a 336 yard par 4.  In the championship itself, he scored 66 and 64 in the first two rounds to equal the lowest 36 hole score in the tournament by Nick Faldo in 1992. Snedeker finished with rounds of 73 and 74 to share 3rd place with Tiger Woods at three under par, four shots behind the winner, Ernie Els  , Snedeker won the 2012 FedEx Cup and the $10 million prize after winning the Tour Championship . , Snedeker began his 2013 season with three top-3 finishes in his first four tournaments: third at the Hyundai Tournament of Champions , tied for second at the Farmers Insurance Open , and solo second at the Waste Management Phoenix Open .  He then won in his fifth start of the year, the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am and moved up to a career-high 4th in the Official World Golf Ranking . He pulled out of the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship the following week, citing a rib injury. He was later diagnosed with "low bone turnover"  and began taking daily injections to increase his bone mass.  He had top-10 finishes at the Masters Tournament ( T-6 ), the Players Championship ( T-8 ), and the AT&T National (T-8), before winning his second tournament of the season at the RBC Canadian Open .  , Snedeker had only three top-10 finishes on the tour in 2014, with a best finish of T-5 at the Wyndham Championship . He finished 86th on the FedEx Cup points list and 60th on the money list. , After a winless and disappointing 2014 including lots of missed cut and rare top-ten, Snedeker worked in the off-season with his coach Butch Harmon to find new sensation in his swing and especially new mental strength.  This hard work finally pay at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am , where Snedeker won for the second time in three years with the score of −22, three strokes ahead of Nick Watney .  This was the seventh PGA Tour title for Snedeker and the victory lifted him back in the top 50 in the World Ranking.  , Snedeker resides in Nashville with his wife Mandy and his children Lily and Austin who were born in 2011 and 2012. He currently works with instructor Butch Harmon. , His brother, Haymes Snedeker, won The Big Break X: Michigan , and earned a shot at Q school and the PGA Tour.  , PGA Tour playoff record (2–0) , * As of the 2013–14 season. , Amateur , Professional , As of February 10, 2013.   Gerry Lester " Bubba " Watson, Jr.   (born November 5, 1978) is an American professional golfer who plays on the PGA Tour . One of the few left-handed golfers on tour, he is a multiple major champion , having won the Masters Tournament in 2012 and 2014 .  In February 2015, Watson reached a career-high 2nd place in the Official World Golf Ranking . , Watson is among the longest drivers on the PGA Tour; in 2007 he had an average drive of 315.2 yards (288.2 m) and can hit a ball over 350 yards (320 m), capable of generating a ball speed up to 194 mph (312 km/h).   , , , Watson was born and raised in Bagdad, Florida , near Pensacola . He played on the golf team at Milton High School , which had featured future PGA Tour members Heath Slocum and Boo Weekley just before he attended.  Watson played golf for Faulkner State Community College in nearby Baldwin County , Alabama , where he was a junior college All-American . He transferred to the University of Georgia , the defending NCAA champions , and played for the Bulldogs in 2000 and 2001. As a junior, Watson helped lead the Bulldogs to the SEC title in 2000. , Watson turned professional in 2003 and joined the Nationwide Tour where he played until 2005. He finished 21st on the Nationwide Tour's money list in 2005 , making him the last player to qualify for the following year's PGA Tour . As a rookie in 2006 , he earned $1,019,264 (90th overall) and led the PGA Tour in driving distance at 319.6 yards (292.2 m). His longest drive in professional competition was 442 yards (404 m) on the PGA Tour at the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational . , Watson played well at the 2007 U.S. Open . He was in the final group on Saturday after shooting rounds of 70-71 (+1) at Oakmont Country Club near Pittsburgh . Watson was one stroke off the lead after 36 holes but then slipped, shooting 74 (+4) in both the third and fourth rounds; he finished in a tie for fifth. , Watson claimed his first PGA Tour win on June 27, 2010, in Cromwell, Connecticut , at the Travelers Championship on the second hole of a sudden-death playoff with Corey Pavin and Scott Verplank .  Watson tearfully dedicated the win to his parents, specifically his father who was battling cancer . , Watson was runner-up to Martin Kaymer at the PGA Championship at Whistling Straits , falling in the three-hole aggregate playoff that initially included Dustin Johnson , before he incurred a two-stroke penalty on the 72nd hole. Watson led the playoff after a birdie on the first hole, but Kaymer birdied the par-3 second hole to tie, effectively turning the playoff into sudden-death. Watson's second shot found the water hazard and Kaymer bested him by a stroke to win the major championship. , Watson had his own clothing line called "Bubba Golf" at the former Steve & Barry's . He was invited on The Ellen DeGeneres Show after he sent her a video of a golf trick shot he completed for her birthday. , On January 30, 2011 , Watson won his second PGA Tour event, the Farmers Insurance Open , finishing one stroke ahead of runner-up Phil Mickelson .  Watson picked up his second win of the 2011 season and third career PGA Tour title on May 1 when he defeated Webb Simpson at the second playoff hole at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans .  Both players birdied the first playoff hole, with Watson holing a 12-footer; he birdied the next hole to win the tournament. , In July 2011, Watson provoked controversy by criticizing the Alstom Open de France on the European Tour , in which he was playing under a sponsor's exemption. He indicated after his first round that he would not be playing any further events on the European Tour,  and complained after his second round about security and organization at the tournament.  , Watson took part in the Long Drive Contest for charity at the Hyundai Tournament of Champions alongside Dustin Johnson and Robert Garrigus . He finished in second place, with a longest drive of 370 yards (338 m) behind a drive of over 400 yards (366 m) by Jamie Sadlowski . , Watson began the year with three top-5 finishes in seven events, including finishing second at the WGC-Cadillac Championship .  , Watson's first major championship win came at the 2012 Masters Tournament . He began the final round at six-under-par, three strokes off the lead, held by Peter Hanson . On the back nine, Watson bogeyed the par-3 12th hole to return to even par for the round. He then recorded four consecutive birdies for a round of 68 (-4) and tied for the 72-hole lead with fourth-round playing partner Louis Oosthuizen at ten-under-par. In the sudden-death playoff, Oosthuizen and Watson both made par on the uphill 18th hole. On the next hole, the downhill 10th, both drove their tee shots towards the woods to the right of the hole. Oosthuizen's landed in the rough 220 yards (200 m) away, while Watson's ball landed deep in the woods on pine straw, 164 yards (150 m) from the pin without a clear shot to the green. Watson executed a miraculous recovery shot with 40 yards of hook on his 52-degree gap wedge and stopped the ball within fifteen feet of the hole. Oosthuizen's approach shot landed short of the green, but he chipped past the hole and narrowly missed his lengthy putt for par. Watson trickled his birdie putt a foot past the hole, took his time on the very short par putt, then made it for the emotional victory.   The win took him to a world ranking of four, a career-high at the time.  , Following his Masters win, Watson began to struggle. He missed the cut at the Memorial Tournament and the U.S. Open . A week after the U.S. Open, he finished tied for second at the Travelers Championship . A month later, he played The Open Championship , the third major of the year. While shooting a first round of −3 to tie him at third place, he never advanced much after that, finishing tied for 23rd place. In the final major of the year, the PGA Championship , Watson finished tied for 11th. He finished the year with one win, six top-5 finishes, seven top-10 finishes and three missed cuts.  , Watson began the season playing the Hyundai Tournament of Champions , where he finished tied for fourth place, and reached the quarterfinals in the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship . In the subsequent World Golf Championship event, the WGC-Cadillac Championship , he began very strong with rounds of 66 and 69, but finished with rounds of 71 and 75 and tied for 18th place. , After finishing tied 14th place in the Arnold Palmer Invitational , he returned to the Masters Tournament as the defending champion. Never in contention in the tournament, he finished 50th after a final round of 77. Watson tied for 37th at The Players Championship . On the second major of the year, the U.S. Open , he finished with a solid 71 in the first round, just four shots off the lead, but a second round score of 76 left him out of contention, and he tied for 32nd. At the Travelers Championship he took the lead after a second round of 67, but in the final round, leading by one with three to play, he triple-bogeyed the par-3 16th and finished two shots back in 4th place. , Tying for 30th at the Greenbrier Classic , he then played in the third major of the year, The Open Championship . After two solids rounds of 70 and 73, he shot 77 in the third round, and tied for 32nd. , At the Waste Management Phoenix Open , Watson held the lead for most of the tournament, but he finished runner-up to Kevin Stadler . , Watson earned his fifth career PGA Tour victory—and his first since the 2012 Masters—at the 2014 Northern Trust Open . He shot back-to-back 64s over the weekend to defeat Dustin Johnson by two strokes.  The victory raised him to 14 in the Official World Golf Ranking. He followed that win with two more strong finishes—a ninth-place tie in the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship and a second-place tie in the WGC-Cadillac Championship .  Those performances elevated him from 14 to 12 in the world ranking.  , Watson won the 2014 Masters Tournament by three shots, with a score of −8.  He entered the final round tied for the lead with 20-year-old Masters rookie Jordan Spieth . Playing together in the final pairing, Spieth birdied the seventh hole for a two-stroke lead over Watson. However, the momentum turned on the par-5 eighth hole. Spieth had a birdie putt, but ended up three-putting for bogey while Watson birdied to pull into a first-place tie.  Then, on the ninth hole, Watson birdied again while Spieth bogeyed, and the four-shot swing over two holes gave Watson a lead that he never relinquished in a win over Spieth and Jonas Blixt .  With the win, Watson became the 17th player to win the Masters two or more times.  The win moved him again to number four in the Official World Golf Ranking.  , Watson was nicknamed by his father after the former professional football player Bubba Smith .  Watson is married to Angela P. "Angie" Watson, née Ball, a 6 ft 4 in (1.93 m) Canadian whom he met at Georgia while he was on the golf team and she was on the women's basketball team.   They were married in September 2004.  In 2009, Angie was diagnosed with an enlarged pituitary gland , which accounts for her height.  , On their first date, Angie told Bubba that she would be unable to conceive a child.  Various family issues, including the illness and death of Watson's father in 2010, kept them from attempting to adopt until the winter of 2011–12.  In March 2012, one week after an adoption of an infant girl fell through at the last moment,  Watson and his wife adopted a one-month-old baby boy named Caleb.  In late 2014 the Watsons adopted a baby girl. , Watson's father, Gerry Lester Watson, Sr.,  died on October 15, 2010 of throat cancer.   Watson's mother is Molly Marie Watson and he has a sister, Melinda Watson Conner.  , Watson is also a member of the "Golf Boys", a boy band consisting of Watson, Ben Crane , Rickie Fowler , and Hunter Mahan . Their single "Oh Oh Oh" is currently on YouTube . The video was produced by Farmers Insurance Group . Farmers donates $1000 to charity for every 100,000 views the video gets.  In 2011, Watson made a humorous appearance in the song "Michael Jackson" by Christian hip hop artist Andy Mineo on the album Formerly Known .   Furthermore, he was featured in the song "Ima Just Do It" by KB , another Christian hip hop artist, on the album Tomorrow We Live .  , In addition to the "Golf Boys," viral success, Bubba Watson's prototype Golf Cart Hovercraft, the BW1, YouTube video has earned more than 8 million views.  , Watson is a committed Christian who speaks openly about Jesus and the importance of faith in his life and says that God is the most important thing in his life.  Watson devotes much of his money and time to charity.  , Watson purchased the mansion in the Isleworth community of Windermere, Florida , that was previously owned by Tiger Woods .  In 2013, he was added to the list of Great Floridians by Governor Rick Scott . , PGA Tour playoff record (4–1) , 1 Defeated Louis Oosthuizen in a sudden-death playoff: Watson (4-4) and Oosthuizen (4-5). , Results not in chronological order prior to 2015. , Professional , Source:   Stewart Ernest Cink (born May 21, 1973) is an American professional golfer who won the 2009 Open Championship . He spent over 40 weeks in the top 10 of the Official World Golf Ranking from 2004 to 2009.   , , , Cink was born in Huntsville, Alabama , and grew up in nearby Florence , where he attended Bradshaw High School. After completing high school in 1991, he graduated from Georgia Tech in Atlanta in 1995 with a degree in Management, where he played golf for the Yellow Jackets ; he turned professional in 1995. , After winning the Mexican Open and three events on the Nike Tour (now the Web.com Tour ) in 1996, Cink joined the PGA Tour in 1997 and won the Canon Greater Hartford Open in his rookie season. Cink performed consistently on the Tour over the next few years, picking up another win at the 2000 MCI Classic. Until his victory in the Open Championship in 2009, 2004 was his most successful season, with a fifth-place finish on the money list and wins at the MCI Heritage and at the WGC-NEC Invitational , which is one of the World Golf Championships events. , On February 24, 2008, Cink was the runner-up in the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship played in Marana, Arizona , falling 8 & 7 in the 36-hole final to top-ranked Tiger Woods . In June 2008, he reached his highest ever ranking, sixth, in the Official World Golf Rankings with his victory at the Travelers Championship in suburban Hartford .  , On July 19, 2009, Cink won his first major title at the 138th Open Championship at Turnberry, Scotland , defeating 59 year-old, five-time champion Tom Watson by six strokes in a four-hole playoff . Cink had birdied the 72nd hole while Watson bogeyed, which forced the playoff.  , Cink has struggled on the PGA Tour since winning the 2009 Open Championship, but is exempt through 2014 as a result of his Open win. , Each fall, Cink co-hosts the East Lake Invitational with Billy Andrade at East Lake Golf Club which benefits the East Lake Foundation. , Cink and his wife, Lisa, have two sons, Connor and Reagan. , PGA Tour playoff record (2–2) , 1 Defeated Tom Watson in 4-hole playoff by 6 strokes (Cink: 4-3-4-3=14 / Watson: 5-3-7-5=20) , Professional  William Harlan Haas (born May 24, 1982) is an American professional golfer who plays on the PGA Tour and won the 2011 FedEx Cup . He is the son of former PGA Tour player Jay Haas . , , , Haas was born in Charlotte, North Carolina , and was raised in Greer, South Carolina , a suburb of Greenville . He was the third member of his family to play golf at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, North Carolina , following his father, Jay , and uncle, Jerry . , Haas had a distinguished college career - he was a three-time first-team All-American , four-time All-ACC, two-time ACC player-of-the-year, and 2001 ACC rookie-of-the-year. During his college career, he won ten college tournaments, and in his senior year of 2004, he won the Haskins Award , the Jack Nicklaus Award, and the Ben Hogan Award. He also set an NCAA record for lowest scoring average. Haas was a member of the 2003 Walker Cup team as well as two Palmer Cup teams. He turned professional in 2004. , Haas was a member of the Nationwide Tour (now Web.com Tour ) in 2005 after failing to earn his PGA Tour card in qualifying school . His best finish in a Nationwide Tour event was a solo second at the 2005 Scholarship America Showdown . At the end of the season Haas birdied the last two holes at the 2005 qualifying tournament to earn his card on the PGA Tour for the 2006 season. , In his debut year on tour, Haas finished 99th on the money list, making 19 out of 30 cuts. His best result was at the Wachovia Championship where he finished in a tie for fourth. He kept his tour card for the 2007 season, but he missed eight cuts in his first 13 events. He started to turn his form around during the fall series and recorded his best finish of the year at the Viking Classic with a tie for third place. He ended the year 104th on the money list. , In 2008 Haas had a remarkably similar year to 2007, finishing 104th on the money list for the second year in a row. He qualified for the first two FedEx Cup playoffs events before being eliminated at the halfway stage, finishing 73rd in the standings. Haas also played well at the Viking Classic for the second year running with a T-4 finish. Haas enjoyed much greater success in 2009 with four top-10 finishes including a tie for third at the Valero Texas Open . This set him up for a good run into the playoffs and for first time in his career, Haas qualified for the third playoff event, the BMW Championship before falling short of the top 30 mark and ending the season 41st in the standings. He also finished 61st on the year-end money list, winning just under $1.5 million. , At the start of the 2010 season Haas won his first PGA Tour title at the Bob Hope Classic in La Quinta, California . A week prior to the event, Haas received advice from his father, Jay, and great-uncle Bob Goalby about his foot positioning during his swing. Haas won the event by one shot over Matt Kuchar , Tim Clark and Bubba Watson . The win came at the start of his fifth year on the PGA Tour.  , With his first win Haas earned his first appearance in the Masters Tournament , where he finished in a tie for 26th. In the fall he won his second PGA Tour title of 2010 and of his career, in October at the Viking Classic , winning by three strokes over Michael Allen .  The following week he finished runner-up at the McGladrey Classic to Heath Slocum by one stroke. This late-season surge elevated him to 20th place on the season's final money list. In addition, he finished 31st in the FedEx cup standings after narrowly missing out on a place in the Tour Championship by one position. , In 2011 Haas won the season-ending Tour Championship at East Lake Golf Club , defeating Hunter Mahan in a sudden death playoff at the third extra hole. At the second playoff hole, Haas played an exceptional pitch from the bank of the water hazard to save par and extend the playoff.  The victory propelled Haas to 2011 FedEx Cup title and the $10 million prize.  Haas was ranked seventh on the final 2011 PGA Tour money list (the FedEx Cup money does not count toward that total). , Haas was one of U.S. team captain, Fred Couples ', two picks for the 2011 Presidents Cup team, along with Tiger Woods . The USA went on to retain the cup, and Haas contributed 1.5 points to the team, with an overall record of 1-3-1 for the week. , Haas won for the fourth time on the PGA Tour in February 2012 at the Northern Trust Open at Riviera Country Club . He came from two strokes back on the final day to hold the clubhouse lead and force both Phil Mickelson and Keegan Bradley to hole lengthy birdie putts on the last hole to ensure a playoff. All three players then parred the 18th, the first playoff hole, and continued to the driveable par-4 10th hole. Haas squirted his drive out to the left to leave a tricky pitch, while Mickelson found the rough and Bradley the bunker on the right. Haas decided to pitch out to the middle of the green, as both Mickelson and Bradley could not find the green on their second shots. Haas then holed a 43-foot birdie putt, and when neither Mickelson nor Bradley could match him, his victory was ensured.  , In June 2013 Haas claimed his fifth PGA Tour title with a win at the AT&T National at Congressional Country Club . He won by three strokes over Roberto Castro after shooting a closing 66, including six birdies and one bogey. He had begun the final round in a four-way tie for the lead. Haas is now one of four players who have won PGA Tour events in each of the last four seasons, joining Dustin Johnson , Phil Mickelson and Justin Rose .  , In April 2014 Haas led the Masters after an opening round of 68.  However, he shot a second round six-over-par 78 to fall down the leaderboard. Over the weekend he finished with rounds of 74-70 to end T20th. , In January 2015, Haas won for the sixth time on the PGA Tour, at the Humana Challenge . He shot a final round 67 for a total of 22-under-par and one stroke victory over five other players. This was the second time that Haas had won the Humana Challenge in his career, having previously won in 2010 (as the Bob Hope Classic). Haas said afterwards that the victory came as a surprise to himself after only recently returning from a fractured wrist injury that hampered him throughout 2014.  , Haas comes from a distinguished family of golfers. His father is nine-time PGA Tour winner, Jay Haas . His brother, Jay Haas Jr., and uncle, Jerry Haas , are former PGA Tour players. He is a great nephew of 1968 Masters Tournament winner, Bob Goalby . , Haas and his father won the CVS Caremark Charity Classic in 2004, an unofficial PGA Tour event. , PGA Tour playoff record (2–2) , Results not in chronological order prior to 2015. , Amateur , Professional  Pádraig P. Harrington (born 31 August 1971) is an Irish professional golfer who plays on the European Tour and the PGA Tour . He has won three major championships : The Open Championship in 2007 and 2008 and the PGA Championship , also in 2008 . , , , Harrington was born in Dublin , Ireland , the youngest of five sons of Patrick and Breda Harrington. His father, "Paddy" (1933–2005), a Garda who played Gaelic football for Cork in the 1950s, was also a boxer and hurler , and played to a five handicap in golf.  , He grew up in Rathfarnham , a middle class area in Dublin's Southside and the birthplace of two other touring professional golfers – Paul McGinley and Peter Lawrie . Harrington attended local secondary school Coláiste Éanna at the same time, but not in the same year/class, as McGinley, giving it the unique distinction of having produced two Ryder Cup golfers. Coached by Joseph McGinley, a golf enthusiast in the school, and Martin Hynes, local player and first caddie, Harrington's interest and passion for the game grew, as the pair recorded their first victory together, in Stackstown G.C. , After a successful amateur career, including winning the Walker Cup with the Great Britain & Ireland team in 1995,  Harrington turned professional later that year, joining the European Tour in 1996.  Harrington came to professional golf at a relatively late age, having studied accountancy at university; he worked in that profession for a number of years while playing high-standard amateur golf.  He was unsure whether to turn professional, initially doubting his skills. , His first victory came quickly, in the 1996 Peugeot Spanish Open .  But for the next few years, the most remarkable thing about his career was the number of times he finished second in European Tour events without ever bettering that position, including four second places in five events in late 1999.  With these runners up finishes Harrington qualified to make his Ryder Cup debut in 1999 .  During this period outside of the European Tour circuit Harrington won the 1998 Irish PGA Championship . , However, in 2000 Harrington discovered a winning touch with two European Tour wins at the Brazil São Paulo 500 Years Open in April,  and the BBVA Open Turespaña Masters Comunidad de Madrid in October.  With these wins Harrington finished 7th on the European Tour Order of Merit for the second time equaling his 1999 finish.  , In 2001 Harrington won his fourth tournament on the European Tour at the Volvo Masters Andalucia ,  this win and 6 runners up finishes in 2001 lifting Harrington to a then career high year end finish of second on the European Tour's Order of Merit.  , 2002 was another successful year on the European Tour with particular success towards the end of the season including winning at the Dunhill Links Championship in October, having birdied the final hole to get into a playoff with Eduardo Romero .  This win and a further 9 top ten finishes earned Harrington a second-place finish of the European Tour's Order of Merit for the second consecutive season.  This form earned Harrington a second Ryder Cup appearance, at the 2002 Ryder Cup hosted at The Belfry , in the final day singles Harrington was 5th out and won an important match against Mark Calcavecchia , as Europe regained the cup by a score of 15.5 to 12.5.   , Harrington continued this winning form into 2003 winning the first event of the 2003 season at the BMW Asian Open in November 2012.  Following Harrington's success in 2001 and 2002 he was invited to, and won, the 2002 Target World Challenge , an unofficial event in the USA hosted by Tiger Woods , whilst this is not a PGA Tour event it marked Harrington's first win in the United States.  His winning form continued into the new year winning the Deutsche Bank Players Championship of Europe in May 2003.  With these two wins Harrington finished third on the 2003 European Tour Order of Merit.  , Harrington won a further two events on the European tour in 2004 at the Omega Hong Kong Open in December 2003  and the Linde German Masters in September 2004.  Harrington finished the season 3rd on the European Tour's Order of Merit, this was the 4th consecutive year in which he was within the year end top-5 and the 6th consecutive year in the top-10.  Harrington once again qualified for the 2004 Ryder Cup , hosted at Oakland Hills Country Club where he was part of a European team that defeated the United States by the largest winning margin by a European team in the history of the event.  , In 2005 having joined the PGA Tour (see below), Harrington played fewer events on the European Tour and experienced his first winless year on the tour since 1999.  In 2006 Harrington was once again a winner on the European Tour at the 2006 Alfred Dunhill Links Championship , this was his second links win having also won the event in 2002 and was a prelude for his future Open Championship success.  Following this Harrington won the 2006 European Tour Order of Merit.  This Order of Merit win came after a titanic battle with Paul Casey and David Howell , which was won on the last hole of the last event. Sergio García bogeyed the 72nd hole in the season ending Volvo Masters to give Harrington a share of second place which earned him enough money to leapfrog Paul Casey to 1st place on the Order of Merit.  , In 2007 Harrington won his home open, The Irish Open for the first time, in doing so Harrington became the first home winner of the Irish Open for 25 years.  , Harrington won the European Tour Golfer of the Year award in 2007 and 2008. , In both 2003 and 2004 he was the runner up in The Players Championship , and in the latter year he won enough money on the PGA Tour as a non-member to earn an invitation to the end of season Tour Championship . , He took membership of the PGA Tour in 2005 and in March he won his first PGA Tour official money event at the Honda Classic , where he beat Vijay Singh and Joe Ogilvie in a sudden-death playoff. In late June, Harrington snatched the Barclays Classic from Jim Furyk with a spectacular 65-foot (20 m) eagle putt on the final hole for his second PGA Tour win. Two weeks later his father died from oesophageal cancer on 11 July, the Monday night preceding the 2005 Open Championship , forcing Harrington's withdrawal. , Harrington has spent a considerable amount of time both in the top ten of the Official World Golf Ranking (over 300 weeks between 2001 and 2010   ) and achieved his best ranking of third following his second Open Championship victory. He has also played for Europe in six Ryder Cups ; losing in 1999 and 2008 , but winning in 2002 , 2004 , 2006 and 2010 . He has also won the par-3 contest at Augusta National , held the day before The Masters , in 2003 (tie), 2004 and 2012 (tie). , At the 2007 Open Championship , Harrington defeated Sergio García in a four-hole playoff at Carnoustie Golf Links , becoming the first Irishman to win The Open Championship in 60 years, and the first ever from the Republic of Ireland. Both players went into the playoff having shot a 7-under 277 for the championship. Harrington subsequently won by one stroke in the playoff. , A year later at the 2008 Open Championship , it was unclear if he would get a chance to defend his Open title at Royal Birkdale as eight days prior to the event he injured his wrist. But Harrington successfully defended his title, overcoming a 2-shot deficit to Greg Norman with a final round 69. He shot a four-under-par 32 on the back nine, which enabled him to pull away from Norman and Ian Poulter . His eagle on the par-5 17th all but sealed the tournament. He is the first European golfer since James Braid in 1906 to retain the Claret Jug . The win moved him from fourteenth to third in the world rankings, behind only Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson .  , Just three weeks after winning the Open Championship, Harrington won the PGA Championship over the South Course of the Oakland Hills Country Club , for his third major . Although at five over par after two rounds, he shot eight under par for the weekend, carding successive scores of 66 in the third and fourth rounds. His three under par 277 was two shots ahead of Sergio García and Ben Curtis . Harrington became the first European to win the PGA Championship in 78 years ( Tommy Armour in 1930), and is the first winner from Ireland. , Aside from Tiger Woods , who has won consecutive majors three times (2000, 2002, and 2006), Harrington is the first golfer to win two majors in the same year since Mark O'Meara in 1998 and the first to win consecutive majors in the same year since Nick Price in 1994. , Harrington's victory in the PGA Championship secured his position as the number one player in Europe, earning him the number one spot in the 2008 European Ryder Cup team under captain Nick Faldo . , Harrington started his 2009 season with a tied-fifth finish in the Abu Dhabi Golf Championship on the European Tour . He then went through a tough period in his career, missing the cut at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am , as well as the Northern Trust Open on the PGA Tour. He finished tied-11th at the Arnold Palmer Invitational in what would be one of his better results in the early part of 2009. He arrived at the 2009 Masters Tournament hoping to join Ben Hogan and Tiger Woods as the only players to win three consecutive professional majors. Harrington started with a 3-under-par first round, but eventually faded over the weekend, finishing tied for 35th place. His struggles continued in the succeeding months, as he missed the cut at five of his next six events, including The 3 Irish Open and the U.S. Open . It was during this period that he announced that he was working on swing changes with coach Bob Torrance. , Harrington arrived at The Open Championship at Turnberry hoping to complete a hat-trick of Open wins, a feat that has only been achieved by Peter Thomson . He ended up finishing tied for 65th place. At the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational he was involved in a final day head-to-head between himself and World number one Tiger Woods . Harrington led by one shot playing the 16th hole, but he racked up a triple-bogey to Woods' birdie and he finished in joint 2nd place. The following week Harrington, the defending champion, played the first two rounds with Woods at the PGA Championship . He shot a first round 68, ending one shot behind the leader Woods. Rounds of 73 and 69 left him two shots behind Woods. He was in contention in the final round, until he made an 8 at the par-3 8th hole. He ended in a tie for 10th. He finished in the top-10 in all four FedEx Cup playoff events, before further top-10s in Europe and the States before the end of the season. He ended the year winless on the European and PGA Tours for the first time since 1999. , Harrington missed the cut in three out of the four majors in 2010. In an inconsistent season, he had five top-10s on the PGA Tour, but also missed six cuts. He was a controversial wild-card pick by European captain Colin Montgomerie for the 2010 Ryder Cup . He won two matches and lost two matches as Europe regained the Ryder Cup. It was his sixth Ryder Cup and fourth time being on the winning team. He won his first tournament in two years at the Iskandar Johor Open in Malaysia on the Asian Tour . He finished the year ranked 25th in the world. , Harrington started his 2011 season with an opening round 65, for a first round lead at the Abu Dhabi HSBC Golf Championship on the European Tour. He was later disqualified before his second round commenced, after a spectator telephoned in and pointed out an incident of his ball moving an exceptionally small distance closer to the hole on the green, while he was replacing his ball marker, during the first round; it had been shown on television. (The incident led to a rules review, and if it were to occur again, would not be a penalty.) He missed the cut at the Masters Tournament and finished tied for 45th at the U.S. Open . In June 2011, he dropped outside the top 50 in the World Rankings for the first time since 1999. , Harrington made his first start of the 2012 PGA Tour season at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am where he finished joint top of the Pro-Am leaderboard, alongside partner J.P. McManus , with Brian Harman and Greg Ontiveros . Harrington also enjoyed a good finish in the overall tournament with a tied for seventh finish. In March 2012, Harrington shot a 61 in the first round of the Transitions Championship to set a new course record at the Copperhead Course. This was also Harrington's lowest ever round on the PGA Tour. He could not maintain his brilliant first day's play over the remaining three rounds though and finished in a tie for 20th place. , In April 2012, at the first major of the year, The Masters , Harrington shot five under for the last six holes in his third round to close to within three shots of the lead. In the final round, he shot a level par round of 72 to finish tied for 8th. It was Harrington's first top-10 finish in a major since the 2009 PGA Championship. , At the 2012 U.S. Open , Harrington was in contention to win a fourth major championship, when rounds of 74-70-71 on the first three days got him into contention on Sunday. After bogeying two of the first six holes, Harrington preceded to play the stretch from hole 7–17 in 5-under-par to find himself two behind the leader. Needing a birdie at the last to finish ahead of the clubhouse leader Michael Thompson , Harrington took the pin on at the 18th and found a plugged lie in the greenside bunker, which resulted in a bogey finish at 3-over-par. Ultimately this did not cost him the championship as he finished two shots behind Webb Simpson on 1-over-par. Harrington later stated that he thought he had to birdie the last to get to 1-over-par as the reason for taking such an aggressive line on the 18th. He eventually finished in a tie for fourth place, which represented his best showing at a U.S. Open . , In October 2012 Harrington won the PGA Grand Slam of Golf despite having not won a major championship during the year, having been a late replacement for Open champion Ernie Els .  , Harrington endured difficult 2013 and 2014 seasons finishing outside of the top 60 on the European Tour Race to Dubai in both years and outside of the top 130 on the PGA Tour FedEx Cup in both years. During this period his Official World Golf Ranking fell to an 18-year low of 385 as of 1 December 2014.  In December 2014 he won the Bank BRI Indonesia Open on the Asian Tour for his first official win for 4 years.  , In March 2015, Harrington won his first event on the European or PGA Tours for seven years since the 2008 PGA Championship at the Honda Classic . He defeated rookie Daniel Berger on the second extra hole of a sudden-death playoff.  Harrington had started the 2014–15 season out of the past champion's category after finishing 188th in the FedEx Cup. Harrington was the second consecutive player ranked 297th in the world to win on the PGA Tour, after James Hahn won the Northern Trust Open the week before.   The victory qualified Harrington for the Masters having missed out on the event in 2014 for the first time since he made his debut in 2000. This also moved him back into the world's top 100. , Harrington has known his wife Caroline since childhood. They were married in 1997 and have two sons: Patrick, born in 2003, and Ciarán, born in November 2007.  , Harrington is a distant cousin of 1995 World Series of Poker champion and author Dan Harrington and former NFL quarterback Joey Harrington .  , Harrington's given name "Pádraig" is the Irish Language version of the name Patrick , which is in common usage in Ireland. His four older brothers have Irish names as well (Tadhg, Columb, Fintan, and Fergal). , Harrington's caddy since 2004 is Ronan Flood . Flood married Susie Gregan, the sister of Pádraig's wife, in 2007. , After leaving school, Harrington mixed amateur golf with studying Accounting. He passed his final exams in 1994 to gain admittance to ACCA ( Association of Chartered Certified Accountants ). , Harrington has undergone laser eye surgery,  as did his compatriot Paul McGinley , in a bid to improve his game.  , Harrington became a Global Ambassador for Special Olympics , the world's largest sports organisation for people with intellectual disabilities, in May 2010. He has conducted a number of golf clinics for Special Olympics athletes and coaches. [ citation needed ] , Harrington is patron of Irish charity Oesophageal Cancer Fund (OCF) since 2006, having lost his father to oesophageal cancer in 2005. He actively promotes Lollipop Day, the designated day for oesophageal cancer fundraising in Ireland celebrated every February. , European Tour playoff record (4–4) , PGA Tour playoff record (3–1) , 1 Co-sanctioned with the European Tour , 1 Defeated Sergio García in a four-hole playoff by 1 stroke: Harrington (3-3-4-5=15) and García (5-3-4-4=16) , Amateur , Professional  Hunter Myles Mahan (born May 17, 1982) is an American professional golfer who plays on the PGA Tour . He is a winner of two World Golf Championship events, the 2010 WGC-Bridgestone Invitational and the 2012 WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship . , , , Mahan was born in Orange, California . He had a successful amateur career, winning the 1999 5A Texas State High School Golf Championship while attending McKinney High School and the 1999 U.S. Junior Amateur . After high school, Mahan enrolled at the University of Southern California , where he was named Pacific-10 Conference Freshman of the Year. Mahan only played one year at USC before he transferred to Oklahoma State University , where he was a two-time Big 12 Conference Player of the Year and a two-time first-team All American. Mahan was the runner-up at the U.S. Amateur in 2002, in which he was defeated by Ricky Barnes 2 & 1. He won the Haskins Award in 2003 for outstanding collegiate golfer. , Mahan turned professional in 2003 and made it through qualifying school to earn a PGA Tour card for the 2004 season. His first PGA Tour victory, which came at the 2007 Travelers Championship , lifted Mahan into the top 100 of the Official World Golf Rankings .  , In August 2007 Mahan entered the top 50 in the world rankings, and in that year finished 15th in the FedEx Cup . His performances in 2007 saw U.S. Presidents Cup captain Jack Nicklaus choose Mahan as one of two captain's picks for the U.S. team. By March 2008 he had reached the top 30. , On February 28, 2010, Mahan won his second PGA Tour event, beating Rickie Fowler by one stroke at the Waste Management Phoenix Open .  On August 8, 2010, Mahan won his third PGA Tour title at the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational . He beat Ryan Palmer by 2 strokes.  , Mahan won his second WGC tournament in February 2012 at the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship . He defeated Rory McIlroy , 2 and 1, in the final.  , Mahan recorded his fifth career PGA Tour victory in April at the Shell Houston Open and moved to fourth in the Official World Golf Ranking , making him the highest-ranked American for the first time.  In defense of his title he won in 2012, Mahan reached the final of the 2013 WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship but was beaten 2&1 by Matt Kuchar . , In August 2014, Mahan won the first of the year's four FedEx Cup playoff events, The Barclays . He won by two strokes from Stuart Appleby , Jason Day and Cameron Tringale during a final round that saw six different players share the lead at some point. He birdied three of his last four holes to pull clear of the field. This was Mahan's first ever playoff victory and his sixth overall title on the PGA Tour .  , Mahan was selected by Tom Watson as one of his three captain's picks for the 2014 Ryder Cup team, finishing with a record of 1–2–1 in the four matches he participated in. This included a halved match against Justin Rose in the singles competition.  , Mahan's sponsors include Under Armour , Titleist , Ping , BioSteel Sports Supplements Inc. , NetJets , FootJoy , Clubface Golf, RBC Golf Pigeon, and Ace Hardware .  , Mahan is one of four golfers in the PGA Tour boy band "Golf Boys" (with Rickie Fowler , Ben Crane and Bubba Watson ). The Golf Boys have a popular YouTube video for the song "Oh Oh Oh". Farmers Insurance donates $1,000 for every 100,000 views of the video. The charitable proceeds support both Farmers and Ben Crane charitable initiatives.  , Mahan married Dallas Cowboys Cheerleader and Dallas Mavericks dancer Kandi Harris in 2011. On July 27, 2013, Mahan withdrew from the RBC Canadian Open before the third round after getting news that his wife had gone into labor. Mahan was the 36-hole leader at that point, taking a two-stroke advantage into the third round. A daughter, Zoe, was born early the next morning.  , PGA Tour playoff record (1–2) , Results not in chronological order prior to 2015. , Amateur , Professional  José María Olazábal Manterola ( Spanish pronunciation:  [xoˈse maˈria olaˈθaβal manteˈrola] , Basque:  [olas̻abal] ; born 5 February 1966) is a Spanish professional golfer who has enjoyed success on both the European Tour and the PGA Tour , and has won two major championships . , In 2012 he captained Europe's Ryder Cup team to a narrow victory over the USA, which seemed improbable at the start of the final day's play when the Europeans trailed 10–6. They came back to win 14½–13½. Oazabal was very emotional with the win, saying in an interview that that was his number one happiest golf moment and happiest moment of his life. The win was inspired by his late friend Seve Ballesteros , to whom he dedicated the win.  , , , Olazábal was born in Hondarribia , a town in the Basque autonomous region of Spain. He burst onto the golf scene in 1984 as a junior, winning the (British) Amateur Championship aged 18. Then, in his rookie professional season of 1986, he finished second on the European Tour Order of Merit aged 20. In his first nine seasons, he finished in the top 10 every year except two, including another second place in 1989, and he was a regular member of the top 10 of the Official World Golf Ranking (over 300 weeks).  Had Olazábal beaten Ian Woosnam at The Masters in 1991 (he finished second) he would have become the World No. 1. He was unable to play in 1996 due to a foot injury but he recovered and recorded further top 10 placings in the Order of Merit in 1997, 1999 and 2000. He has more than 20 career titles on this tour. , Both of Olazábal's majors have come in the United States, namely The Masters in 1994 and 1999. These wins make him the only winner of the Amateur Championship since World War II to have gone on to win a professional major. He has been highly placed in The Masters on a number of other occasions. Olazábal shares the record for the lowest round in the PGA Championship (63), which he accomplished in the third round at Valhalla Golf Club in 2000.  , In 2001 Olazábal began to play on the PGA Tour , while also retaining his membership of the European Tour. He had a solid year on the PGA Tour in 2002, when he won nearly $2 million and came 24th on the money list, but has not duplicated the success he enjoyed in Europe in the 1980s and 1990s. He has six career PGA Tour titles, five of them won before he became a full member of the Tour. In 2006 he made a return to the top 15 of the world rankings. , Olazábal was a member of Europe's Ryder Cup team seven times from 1987 to 2006. He formed a famous partnership with fellow Spaniard Seve Ballesteros that spanned many years,  and formed a similarly successful partnership with Sergio García in 2006. Olazábal captained the European team at the 2012 Ryder Cup for the defence of the trophy at Medinah Country Club in Illinois.  After his team went down 10–6 going into the last day, he helped engineer the greatest ever Ryder Cup comeback with the European team eventually winning by 14½ points to 13½. He confirmed afterwards that he would not consider himself for captaincy in the next Ryder Cup. , Olazábal holds the world record distance for a completed putt. During the 1999 European Ryder Cup team's Concorde flight to the United States, he holed a putt which travelled the full length of the cabin. The ball was in motion for 26.17s, during which time the Concorde, at 1,270 mph, traveled 9.232 miles, beating U.S. golfer Brad Faxon 's previous record of 8.5 miles, set in 1997.  , Olazábal was elected to the World Golf Hall of Fame in 2009 with 56% of the vote on the international ballot.  , On June 19, 2013, Olazábal was presented with Spain's most prestigious sporting honor, the Prince of Asturias Award in recognition of his accomplishments as a player and leader of the 2012 Ryder Cup team. He is only the second golfer to be honored since the awards were launched in 1987; Seve Ballesteros was honored in 1989.  , PGA Tour playoff record (0–2) , Amateur , Professional , Great Britain & Ireland , Europe  Rory Mario Trevor Sabbatini (born 2 April 1976) is a South African professional golfer . He currently resides in Fort Worth, Texas , United States. , , , Sabbatini was born in Durban , South Africa, and has Italian, Scottish and Irish ancestry.  He started playing golf at age 4, but concentrated on it from age 12. He was recruited by the University of Arizona , turned professional in 1998 and joined the PGA Tour in 1999. He was the youngest member of the tour that year. , During the first decade of the 2000s, Sabbatini had five PGA Tour wins; he finished 2006 placed 12th on the money list. In September 2007, he reached the top 10 of the Official World Golf Rankings for the first time,  with a high of 8th.   He spent over 20 weeks in the top-10 in 2007 and 2008.  , Sabbatini tied for second at the 2007 Masters Tournament  and the 2007 WGC-Bridgestone Invitational . He won the Par 3 Contest at the 2008 Masters Tournament .  , Sabbatini has represented South Africa in the World Cup five times and won the event with Trevor Immelman in 2003. , In his first Presidents Cup appearance in 2007, Sabbatini had a 0–3–1 record, as the International team was defeated by the United States team. , In May 2009 Sabbatini captured his fifth PGA Tour title by winning the HP Byron Nelson Championship by two strokes over Brian Davis . He broke the tournament record for scoring with a score of 269 (−19), beating the previous record of 270 (−18).  , In March 2011 Sabbatini won his sixth PGA Tour Title at The Honda Classic with a one stroke victory over South Korea's Y. E. Yang . Sabbatini entered the final round with a five stroke lead over the rest of the field, helped by a course record-equalling 64 on day two. He started his final round in solid fashion with an early birdie at the 3rd hole, however as the round progressed he made bogeys at the 9th and 14th, meaning that Yang was able to cut that lead to just one, with a spectacular tee shot on the par-three 15th that landed 18 inches past the pin. On the next hole though, Sabbatini holed a clutch birdie putt to tighten his grip on the title and played out the 17th and 18th in even-par to hold on for a one stroke victory. This win also secured him a place at the 2011 Masters Tournament . , In the final round of the 2005 Booz Allen Classic , apparently frustrated by the slow pace of play by his partner, Ben Crane , Sabbatini finished the 17th hole and walked over to the next tee, leaving Crane behind to complete the hole by himself. He received heavy criticism, and some sympathy, and later apologised for the incident.  , Sabbatini also made waves following the Wachovia Championship in May 2007 when, after leading the field by one stroke after day three and then giving up five strokes to Tiger Woods to lose the tournament on Sunday, he proclaimed that Woods was "more beatable than ever."  In the final round of the 2007 Bridgestone Invitational , he had a fan removed who heckled him with questions about Tiger Woods.  Then, in December of the same year, more controversy was stirred when he withdrew from the Target World Challenge , an off-season event hosted by Tiger Woods, becoming the only player in history to withdraw from that event.  , In 2011, Sabbatini created more controversy when at the Northern Trust Open , after hitting his ball in the rough, a volunteer helped to locate the ball, but Sabbatini, thinking that the volunteer had moved his ball, yelled at him. He later apologised to avoid being penalised.  Later in 2011, at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans , Sabbatini got into a heated, profanity-laced argument with playing partner Sean O'Hair for undisclosed reasons. His penalty was also undisclosed because of the PGA Tour's policy. , PGA Tour playoff record (1–1) , Amateur , Professional  Jonathan Currie Byrd (born January 27, 1978) is an American professional golfer . He was the 2002 PGA Tour Rookie of the Year , and has won five times on the PGA Tour . , , , Byrd was born in Anderson, South Carolina . He attended Clemson University from 1997 to 2000. During his Clemson career, Byrd was the first four-time First Team All-ACC player in Clemson history and was named a First Team All-America in 1999. He represented the United States on the Walker Cup team in 1999. , Byrd turned professional in 2000 and played on the Buy.Com Tour (now Web.com Tour ), winning the BUY.COM Charity Pro-Am at The Cliffs and finishing eighth on the money list. , In his first season on the PGA Tour in 2002, Byrd won the Buick Challenge and was named PGA Tour Rookie of the Year .  Byrd won the B.C. Open in 2004 and the John Deere Classic in 2007. , Byrd had an average season in 2008 with two top-10s and a little over $1,000,000 in earnings. His best finish in 2009 was at the Memorial Tournament , where he was joint second round leader with Jim Furyk . Byrd would go on to finish T3.  , On July 7, 2009, Byrd 's father, James, died aged 65 after a long struggle with brain cancer .  The death of his father caused Byrd to withdraw from the John Deere Classic , an event he won in 2007. , On October 24, 2010, Byrd defeated Martin Laird and Cameron Percy in a sudden-death playoff at the Justin Timberlake Shriners Hospitals for Children Open for his fourth PGA Tour title. Byrd made a hole-in-one on the fourth hole of the playoff, the par-3 17th, to win the championship.  On January 9, 2011, Byrd defeated Robert Garrigus on the second hole of a playoff to win the PGA Tour season opener the Hyundai Tournament of Champions .  , this list may be incomplete , PGA Tour playoff record (2–1) , Amateur  Benjamin McCully Crane (born March 6, 1976) is an American professional golfer who plays on the PGA Tour . , , , Crane was born in Portland, Oregon . He was introduced to golf at age five by his grandfather. He grew up playing at the nearby Portland Golf Club , where Ben Hogan won the Portland Open in 1945. , Crane graduated from Beaverton High School in 1994 and attended Baylor University in Waco , Texas , but did not play golf for the Bears .  He transferred to the University of Oregon in Eugene and played golf for the Ducks . Crane graduated in 1999 and turned professional that year. , Crane won two events on the second tier Buy.com Tour , the first in 2000 and the second in 2001 . , In December 2001, Crane earned his PGA Tour card for 2002 , and won for the first time on the PGA Tour at the BellSouth Classic the following year. His second win came in 2005 at the U.S. Bank Championship in Milwaukee . Also in 2005 he finished second at the Booz Allen Classic and Bell Canadian Open , third at the 84 Lumber Classic , sixth at the B.C. Open and seventh at The Tour Championship , which placed him 19th in the season earnings with over $2.4 million. In February 2006, just before he turned thirty, he was the highest-ranked American golfer under that age in the Official World Golf Ranking . , Crane has said that he does not like to know with whom he will be paired, saying, "I looked up to a lot of these guys who I'm now playing with. So, I didn't want to have to go to sleep thinking about it." He is also considered one of the slowest players on the tour. On at least two occasions his extremely slow progress through a course has become a media issue, including one in which a fellow tour player Rory Sabbatini played out of turn.  , Crane missed the majority of the 2007 season due to back problems, and played on the PGA Tour in 2008 on a major medical extension. He finished 64th on the money list to retain his card for 2009. , In January 2010 , Crane carded a final-round 70 to win the Farmers Insurance Open at Torrey Pines by a single stroke.  In May he finished third at the Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial , fourth at The Players Championship and seventh at the Byron Nelson Championship . In October, he won the CIMB Asia Pacific Classic Malaysia , an event co-sanctioned by the PGA Tour (but unofficial money) and Asian Tour .  With 12 top-25s in 24 events, he ended 23rd on the money list with over $2.8 million. , He picked up his fourth win on the PGA Tour in 2011 at the McGladrey Classic , defeating Webb Simpson in a playoff.  Crane shot a final round 63 to make the playoff, having at one stage been eight strokes back of the leader. The round included eight birdies and one bogey in ten holes from the 8th to the 17th. , Crane picked up his fifth victory on the PGA Tour in 2014 at the FedEx St. Jude Classic . He would pick up the victory in wire to wire fashion, winning by a single stroke over Troy Merritt despite three bogeys and no birdies for his final round. , Crane is married to Heather Crane. Crane has three children: C.C., Brady and Saylor. Crane is a Christian .  , Crane currently is one of four golfers in the PGA Tour exclusive boy band , "Golf Boys" - with Rickie Fowler , Bubba Watson , and Hunter Mahan . The Golf Boys currently have a popular YouTube video for the song "Oh Oh Oh." Farmers Insurance will donate $1,000 for every 100,000 views of the video. The charitable proceeds will support both Farmers and Ben Crane charitable initiatives.  , In early December 2009 Life & Style magazine reported that Crane had called Tiger Woods a "fake and a phony" due to Woods' recently publicized marital infidelity. Crane denied making the remarks, stating that he was not even at Q-school where the magazine said he was interviewed.  “My wife and I have prayed for Tiger and Elin, and we want nothing but the best for them,” Crane said.  In January 2010 the magazine retracted its story, stating that the evidence indicated that the comments were made by someone impersonating Crane.  , this list may be incomplete , PGA Tour playoff record (1–0) , ^Co-sanctioned with the PGA Tour, but unofficial money event.  John Patrick Daly (born April 28, 1966) is an American professional golfer on the PGA Tour .  , Daly is known primarily for his driving distance off the tee (earning him the nickname "Long John"), his non- country club appearance and attitude, and his rough-and-tumble personal life. His two greatest on course accomplishments are his "zero to hero" victory in the 1991 PGA Championship , and his playoff victory over Costantino Rocca in the 1995 Open Championship . , According to official performance statistics kept since 1980, Daly in 1997 became the first PGA Tour player to average more than 300 yards per drive over a full season. He did so again in every year from 1999 to 2008, and he was the only player to do so until 2003.  , Daly's last PGA Tour victory came in San Diego in 2004, earning him a two-year playing exemption. After 2006, Daly's career began to falter and he had trouble making cuts and staying on the PGA Tour. He was primarily earning entry through past champion status and numerous sponsor invitations. , Daly is the only man from either Europe or the United States to win two major golf championships but not participate in the Ryder Cup . , Daly has been successful in multiple businesses. He has a "Loud Mouth" line of clothing and a golf course design company. In addition, Daly has written and recorded music and released two music albums. , , , Daly was born in Carmichael, California . With his father, mother, older sister and older brother, he moved from California to Dardanelle, Arkansas when he was four, and he began playing golf the following year. He attended Helias High School in Jefferson City, Missouri, and was a letterman in football and golf. In golf, he was a Missouri state champion; he held and continues to hold several kicking records in football. He attended the University of Arkansas , where he was a member of the golf team. He left college before completing his degree.   , Daly turned professional in 1987, and his first pro victory came in the 1987 Missouri Open. He won the Ben Hogan Utah Classic in 1990; he also won two South African Sunshine Tour pro events that year.  , He joined the PGA Tour in 1991 and won the PGA Championship that year. This victory gained Daly a significant amount of media attention, due to the fact that Daly was the ninth and final alternate for the Championship. Just days before the tournament Nick Price dropped out since his wife Sue was about to give birth. The eight other alternates could not make it to Crooked Stick Golf Club in time for the tournament. Daly, playing just his third major, was able to have Price's caddy Jeff (Squeaky) Medlin caddy for him. A virtual unknown at the time, he parlayed this opportunity into a first-round score of 69, even though he hadn't had time to play a practice round on the difficult Crooked Stick course. He finished the tournament with scores of 69-67-69-71, giving him a three-stroke victory over Bruce Lietzke . Daly was subsequently named PGA Tour Rookie of the Year . He was also the first rookie to win a major title since Jerry Pate won the U.S. Open in 1976.   , His surprise victory and powerful swing provided the impetus for a cult-like fanbase, composed of many people who had not been previously attracted to golf, and from that point onwards, Daly became one of the most popular players on Tour; he proved able to swell the attendance at events he played. He won the B.C. Open in 1992 and the BellSouth Classic in 1994.  He added to his reputation as a power hitter in 1993 by becoming the first (and still the only) player to reach the green of the famous 630-yard hole 17 at Baltusrol Golf Club in two strokes.  , In 1995, Daly unexpectedly won The Open Championship in a playoff with Italian Costantino Rocca at St Andrews . As Rocca approached the final hole, he was one shot behind Daly who had already finished his round. Rocca's long drive was only yards from the green, but his second shot resulted in a fluffed chip where he forgot to follow through. Rocca sank a 60 foot (18 metre) putt on the 18th at St Andrews to make the birdie he needed to force a playoff with Daly. Daly easily defeated Rocca in the playoff finishing the four holes of the playoff at one under par, while Rocca finished three over par after hitting into the "Road Hole Bunker" and taking three shots to get out. Daly is the only eligible two-time major winner never selected to play in the Ryder Cup . This distinction is often used in quiz shows; in 2006, Scottish golfer Sam Torrance took over nine minutes to (correctly) answer this question on Britain's longest-running game show A Question of Sport .  , Daly won the Buick Invitational in 2004, and he was also selected as PGA Tour Comeback Player of the Year for 2004. Daly won the golf tournament in a playoff against Luke Donald and Chris Riley . Daly started using Dunlop golf equipment before this tournament, and the Buick Invitational was his first victory in 189 events. Daly also increased his world golf ranking from 299th to a spot in the Top 50 during this time frame. Statistically he ranked 4th overall on the PGA tour for 2004.  However, Daly did not win another PGA tournament until December 2014, when he won the Beko Classic by one shot. The tournament, played at Gloria Golf Club in Belek, Antalya, Turkey, is sanctioned by the PGAs of Europe.  , Daly entered the 2007 PGA Tour season without full exempt status for the first time since his 1991 PGA Championship victory, which carried a 10-year PGA Tour exemption. Another such exemption was earned with his 1995 Open Championship win. When Daly won the 2004 Buick Invitational , he earned a 2-year exemption, which expired at the end of 2006. Daly finished 193rd on the 2006 PGA Tour Official Money List,  thereby losing his full exempt status for 2007. , Although Daly has had $10,116,306 in career earnings as of June 2, 2014, he is not among the top 50 on the PGA Tour's All-Time Career Money List,  and so he must now depend heavily on sponsor invitations (PGA Tour Exemption Category 11  ). Some 2007 PGA Tour events extended such invitations. Outside of sponsor invitations, Daly can also play in many 2007 regular events via Exemption Category 32,  "Past Champions, Team Tournament Winners and Veteran Members Beyond 150 on Money List". , As far as individual tournaments are concerned, Daly is exempt for life in the PGA Championship and AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am , and up to age 60 in the British Open. In order to play in the Masters , U.S. Open , a World Golf Championship or a FedEx Cup Playoff Event , Daly would have to satisfy the particular invitational requirements of such events. Daly has not played at the Masters since 2006, and he has not made the cut there since 2002, even though Augusta National golf course was made for players with his talents.  , Fans and golf columnists point to the 2005 WGC-American Express Championship as the event where John Daly's post-2006 exempt status would be determined. Tied with Tiger Woods at the end of regulation play, Daly missed a short par putt on the 2nd extra playoff hole, giving Woods the victory. Had Daly instead made the par, and then had gone on to win, he would have earned a 3-year PGA Tour exemption through 2008.  Daly also made it to another playoff in the 2005 Shell Houston Open , but lost on the first extra hole to Vijay Singh .  , Daly was invited to play in the Honda Classic on March 1, 2007 on a sponsor's exemption, but had to withdraw after two holes. He pulled a muscle near his shoulder blade when he tried to stop his backswing after a fan snapped a picture.  In December 2008, he was suspended for six months by the PGA Tour.  , After his 2008 suspension, Daly was forced to compete on the European Tour . After undergoing lap-band surgery to lose 40 pounds,  he began playing much better golf, even managing to finish 2nd  at the Italian Open . On May 26, 2009, Daly announced that he would return to the PGA Tour,  via sponsor's exemption, for the St. Jude Classic . On July 17, Daly told The Dan Patrick Show that he had lost 80 pounds thanks to the surgery, dropping him to 205 lbs. , However, after shooting a then personal-high 88 at the Buick Open in late July 2009, he claimed to be losing confidence in his game, and his swing coach blamed the surgery for making him lose muscle along with weight, taking power away from his swing. However, Daly blamed the effects of his poor eyesight on his putting for his high golf score.  , On March 14, 2014, during the second round of the Valspar Championship , Daly shot a career worst 90 which included an 8-over-par 12 on the 16th hole.  His frequent failure to make cuts and high rounds have revived debates on players who frequently receive sponsor exemptions.  , Daly shot a score of 68 for the first round of the 2012 PGA Championship which was played at Kiawah Island, South Carolina.  Daly finished 18th place in that tournament, which was the first time Daly had finished in the top 20 in a major championship since the British Open in 2005. At 47 years of age, Daly can still hit drives as long as anybody on the PGA Tour. However, Daly continues to play more abroad vs. United States due to his limited status on the PGA Tour. In the late fall of 2014 Daly started to show some promise finishing T-29 at the Sanderson Farms Championship , his only start in 2014 of the 2014–15 season. Soon after, Daly, finished T-25 at the Turkish Airlines Open , a European Tour event with a strong field. Then on December 6, 2014, Daly won the Beko Classic, an event sanctioned by the PGAs of Europe, finishing at −15, Daly's first win in over 10 years  , Daly has a flowing self-taught golf swing which was built for raw power and distance. Daly takes his golf club back much farther past parallel on his back swing by extreme coiling of his arms and shoulders which creates very fast club head speed on his down swing. However, Daly's golf swing has contributed to his inconsistent performance during golf tournaments since almost perfect timing is required for proper execution of such a powerful golf swing.  , Daly has had several incidents during golf tournaments which have contributed to his "Wild Thing" image including the following:   , After winning the PGA Championship at Crooked Stick Golf Club in 1991, Daly gave $30,000 to the family of a man who died during the tournament due to lightning strike. The money was used by the family to pay college expenses for the man's two daughters. Daly was just starting his golf career and was not wealthy at the time.  , Daly is known for his involvement in many charities including several in northwest Arkansas. He has donated money to his high school, the Make-A-Wish Foundation , and Boys and Girls Clubs of America . Daly is also an active supporter of the sports programs at the University of Arkansas. He shaved his signature " mullet ", and donated the proceeds from the event to various charities.  Daly regularly plays in the celebrity Pro-Am Monday after the Masters hosted by his friends, Hootie & the Blowfish .  , Daly is in partnership with Loudmouth Golf line of clothing, which includes licensing deals with the NFL's Dallas Cowboys and Arkansas Razorbacks . Sales continue to increase making it difficult to meet demand.  In 2006, Daly launched a wine label John Daly Wines ,  now defunct. , Daly also has a company which designs golf courses (JD Designs), including Sevillano Links at Rolling Hills Casino in Corning, California. Sevillano Links is one of the few links style golf courses in the Western United States, and named "Best New Golf Course" by Golfweek magazine.   Other golf courses that John Daly helped design include: , In 2010, publisher Oxygen Games released John Daly's Prostroke Golf for the Xbox 360 , PS3 , and PC . In the game, John Daly is the instructor, as well as the opponent, for players. The game includes twelve courses modeled after real-world courses, but these are locked at the outset. In order to unlock courses, players must defeat Daly in Challenges, including driving, short game, and putting. Unlocking a course allows the player to play against Daly and other players in tournaments.  , In 2007, Daly provided back-up vocals in the Kid Rock song, "Half Your Age".  In April 2010, Daly released his second music album called "I Only Know One Way" on Long Ball Records/Hopesong Digital/ GMV Nashville . He wrote/co-wrote eight tracks on the album. One track includes Hootie And The Blowfish 's lead singer Darius Rucker and a cover of Bob Dylan 's Knockin' On Heaven's Door . The following is John's perspective on his music: "The album itself is really my life. All of the songs have a meaning. Most of the record is happening or has happened in my life. I hope people can relate to some of the troubles I have had along the way. Everyone around the world has problems, and I want to connect with those people." John's first album, 'My Life,' included guest vocals by Darius, Willie Nelson and Johnny Lee .  , In March 2008, Daly's swing coach Butch Harmon quit, saying that "the most important thing in his life is getting drunk." John Daly responded by saying "I think his lies kind of destroyed my life for a little bit."  , On October 26, 2008, Daly was taken into protective custody by Winston-Salem police after being found drunk outside a Hooters restaurant. Daly was not arrested or charged with a violation. However, the police released his mug shot to the media which resulted in negative publicity.  Shortly after this incident, Daly committed to stop drinking alcohol and to this date does not drink, which has resulted in a progressive resurgence of his game and a positive change in his personal life; this was confirmed by Daly himself at the Open on July 15, 2010.  , In an interview on the Dan Patrick Show on August 6, 2014, Daly acknowledged that much of his past struggle with alcohol was due to growing up with an alcoholic and abusive father.  , In July 1994, Daly claimed that many PGA golfers were cocaine users, and said that if drug testing was done properly on tour, he would be "one of the cleanest guys out there".  This statement brought an uproar among the pro golf community.  , In early 2009 he had " Lap-Band Surgery " which limits the amount of food that he can consume.  As of December 8, 2009, Daly had shed well over 100 pounds and was "a slim, trim 185".  , In 2006, Daly revealed in the last chapter of his autobiography that he has had great difficulty with a gambling problem.  He claims to have lost between US$50 and $60 million over the past 15 years. This includes losing $1.5 million in October 2005, after winning half that amount at the WGC-American Express tournament, most of it lost on a $5,000 Las Vegas slot machine at Wynn Casino .   , In summer 1992, he married Bettye Fulford. They had a daughter, Shynah Hale. In December 1992, Daly was charged with third-degree assault for throwing his second wife Bettye into a wall at their home near Denver . The actual circumstances of the incident remained unclear so far as public releases were concerned, since Bettye did not wish to pursue the matter.  Daly has said in his autobiography that he did not, nor has he ever, hit or hurt a woman.  , On July 29, 2001, he married Sherrie Miller. Their son John Patrick Daly II was born July 23, 2003. On June 8, 2007, Daly and Sherrie got into a fight at a restaurant in Memphis, Tennessee , site of that week's tour stop, the Stanford St. Jude Championship . Daly claims that later that night his wife attacked him with a steak knife. He showed up for his second round on Friday afternoon with cuts and scrapes across his face. Authorities were contacted by him and came to his house, but his wife had already fled the scene and taken their children with her.  , Sherrie (at some point) plead guilty to federal drug charges and was sentenced to a five-month prison term. On December 17, 2010 in Memphis, Circuit Court Judge Donna Fields awarded custody of the couple's 7-year-old son, "little John" to Daly, and jailed Sherrie for interfering with Daly's court-ordered visitation rights and other failures to abide by the court's orders in their ongoing divorce proceeding, saying “She is not following this court's orders. That is criminal contempt.”  , In 2005 Daly sued the Florida Times-Union for libel after a columnist claimed Daly "failed the scoundrel sniff test." A judge threw out the case in 2009, saying that Daly had failed to prove the basis of the libel claim: namely, that the statements were untrue. Daly was also ordered by a judge to pay the newspaper over $300,000 in legal fees.  , PGA Tour playoff record (2–2) , 1 Defeated Rocca in four-hole playoff: Daly (4-3-4-4=15), Rocca (5-4-7-3=19)  Luke Campbell Donald MBE (born 7 December 1977) is an English professional golfer who has been the World Number One . He plays mainly on the U.S. based PGA Tour but is also a member of the European Tour . , Donald had an outstanding year in 2011, winning several tournaments and awards. He won the PGA Tour money list and European Race to Dubai to complete a historic double, becoming the first player to win both money lists on the PGA and European Tours in the same year.  He was named the PGA Player of the Year and the European Tour Golfer of the Year . He also became the first Englishman to win the PGA Tour Player of the Year award, the PGA Tour's Vardon Trophy and the Mark H. McCormack Award for the most weeks at number one during a calendar year. He was later awarded honorary life membership of the European Tour for his achievements in 2011. , In May 2011, Donald became the number one golfer in the Official World Golf Ranking after winning the BMW PGA Championship at Wentworth Club . He held the number one position for 40 weeks between May 2011 and March 2012 before Rory McIlroy briefly took over as world number one. The pair then exchanged the number one position a further four times in the following two months. On 27 May 2012, Donald regained the world number one ranking after successfully defending his BMW PGA Championship title. He held the number one position for a further 10 weeks before McIlroy displaced him again. Donald has spent a cumulative total of 56 weeks as the World Number One and has spent over 200 weeks in the top-10.  He was awarded an MBE in 2012 for services to golf.  , , , Although his father was from Stranraer in southwest Scotland ,  Donald was born in Hemel Hempstead , Hertfordshire, England. He has described himself as "half Scottish".  Nevertheless, Donald plays golf as an Englishman and represented England in golf's World Cup. Donald attended the Rudolf Steiner School in Kings Langley and later the Royal Grammar School, High Wycombe .  He played junior golf at Hazlemere and Beaconsfield Golf Clubs. He was twice the club champion of Beaconsfield, first winning the championship at the age of 15. Donald's brother Christian also played junior golf and caddied for Luke. , Coming from England, he joined College Prospects of America, a service also employed by golfer Martin Laird , which created a résumé for him and sent it to all the major colleges and universities in the United States. Several coaches responded, including Wally Goodwin at Stanford University . Goodwin recruited Donald to join his golf squad, but Donald was not admitted to the university.  , Donald subsequently took a golf scholarship at Northwestern University in 1997, where he studied art theory and practice, and became a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity. His golf coach at Northwestern University was Pat Goss.  He won the individual NCAA Division I Men's Golf Championships men's title in 1999, beating the scoring record formerly held by Tiger Woods .  He and David Lipsky share the Northwestern University school record of 202, for a 54-hole tournament score.  Luke also became the first amateur to win the Chicago Open in 2000.  , Donald turned professional in 2001, making his debut as a professional at the Reno-Tahoe Open on the PGA Tour courtesy of a sponsors exemption. He missed the cut in his debut, but managed to earn invitations into six more events on the PGA Tour in 2001, making three cuts. He earned his tour card for the 2002 season by finishing T23rd at the Q-School. , In 2002, Donald made his first start as a member of the PGA Tour at the Sony Open in Hawaii , finishing tied for 13th. Donald won his maiden title on the PGA Tour in March 2002 at the Southern Farm Bureau Classic . The tournament was reduced to 54 holes after significant rain meant unplayable conditions and washed out play on the Sunday. He was two strokes back at the halfway stage, but birdied holes 15, 16 and 17 on Saturday for a 67 and a one stroke advantage over South African Deane Pappas . After the final round was cancelled, Donald was crowned champion on Monday morning. With this success he became only the 11th rookie in PGA Tour history to earn more than $1 million in his first season.  , The 2003 season was less successful for Donald. He played solidly and made 17 of 25 cuts on the PGA Tour, but only two of these were top-10 finishes. He did however finish in a tie for third at the Scandinavian Masters on the European Tour in August 2003. , In 2004, Donald won the Omega European Masters and the Scandinavian Masters on the European Tour. In the same year he was a member of the victorious European Ryder Cup team and also won the WGC-World Cup for England in partnership with Paul Casey . , In 2005, Donald made his debut at the Masters Tournament and finished tied for 3rd place. He described his debut at Augusta National as "a great performance – I am very happy with that".  Donald rose in the World Rankings from 130th at the turn of the year to 13th in the world in April 2005 after his top-3 finish at the Masters.  Later in the year Donald, along with Tom Watson , was one of two players to play with Jack Nicklaus in the final two rounds of golf in his career, at the 2005 Open Championship at Old Course at St Andrews .  , In March 2006, Donald won his second U.S. PGA Tour event at the Honda Classic in Florida, a victory which moved him into the top ten of the World Rankings for the first time. Donald finished tied for 3rd at the 2006 PGA Championship . To date, his third-place finishes at the 2006 PGA Championship and at the 2005 Masters are his best performances in major championships. In September 2006, Donald won his singles match 2&1 against Chad Campbell in the 36th Ryder Cup to help ensure Europe won the trophy for the third successive time. Donald also won in the foursomes twice, with Sergio García . Donald took part in three matches in the Ryder Cup that year, winning all of them. , In 2008, Donald sustained an injury to his left wrist at the U.S. Open that forced him to withdraw from the tournament during the final round.  His injury resulted in him having a six-month lay-off from competitive golf which meant that he missed out on playing in the Open Championship, the PGA Championship and the Ryder Cup that year.   , In May 2010, Donald won the Madrid Masters by one shot for his first title in four years.  In October 2010, Donald was a member of the European team that won the 2010 Ryder Cup with a one-point win over the USA.  , Donald's biggest win to date came in February 2011 at the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship when he defeated the German Martin Kaymer 3&2 in the final. During the final, Donald built a three-up lead over the first five holes. However, Kaymer pegged him back and won three of the next four holes meaning the match was all square entering the back-nine. Donald was able to regain his lead with two successive wins at holes 11 and 12, then followed that up with a birdie on hole 15 to re-build his three-up lead with three holes to play. Both players then parred the par-3 16th, ensuring Donald's first World Golf Championship title and the biggest victory of his career.  , Donald had been in exceptional form all week and held an unprecedented record of having never trailed at any point during the week. He started the tournament off in fine fashion with a 6&5 win over American Charley Hoffman . The second round was much more competitive and his toughest test all week when he faced fellow Ryder Cup team mate Edoardo Molinari . It was a tight match that went down to the 17th, when Donald holed a birdie putt to seal a 2&1 victory. His third round opponent was another Italian, this time the young 17-year-old Matteo Manassero , who Donald beat 3&2. In the quarter-final on Saturday, he faced American Ryan Moore and won at the 14th with a 5&4 victory. In his semi-final match against Matt Kuchar , Donald was in magnificent form winning 6&5, having found himself seven-up through the first 10 holes.  , It was indeed Donald's form on the front-nine all week that took him to this title, as apart from the final when Kaymer came back to square the match, Donald was able to build unassailable leads en route to victory. As a result of this tournament victory, Donald climbed to his highest ever World Ranking position of number three in the world. , Donald continued his early-season form at The Heritage at Harbour Town Golf Links when he held the lead going into final round with Jim Furyk . With the pressure of knowing that he would become the new world number 1, he shot a one under par 70 to finish tied with American Brandt Snedeker , who fired a 64 (−7). In the playoff, both players birdied the first hole and then parred the second hole. However, at the third extra hole, Donald made bogey when his chip ran narrowly past the outside edge of the hole, giving Snedeker the win with a par.  , Donald continued his excellent match play form in May, reaching the final of the Volvo World Match Play Championship , which he eventually lost 2&1 to fellow Englishman Ian Poulter . He knew that had he had won this tournament he would have gone to world number one for the first time in his career. Donald had previously beaten Ross Fisher , Charl Schwartzel and Martin Kaymer to reach the final; however, he did not add the Volvo World Match Play title to his WGC-Accenture Match Play title he won earlier in the year.  This defeat ended Donald's run of 14 consecutive match play wins. , In May 2011, Donald beat Lee Westwood in a playoff to win the European Tour's flagship event, the BMW PGA Championship at the Wentworth Club . This was Donald's fifth victory on the European Tour and in the process achieving one of the game's highest accolades of becoming the world number one. Westwood had entered the tournament as number one in the world and the sudden-death playoff at the end of 72 holes provided a subplot of world numbers one and two contesting for the championship. On the first playoff hole, the par-five 18th, after both laying up with their second shots, Donald played a pitch for his third shot to leave himself a putt of no more than six feet for birdie. Westwood's approach shot to the green spun back into the water hazard. Westwood chipped out from the drop zone and made double bogey, leaving Donald to hole out for a birdie to win the title and become the new world number one.  To date, Donald is only the third Englishman to hold the number one position in the Official World Golf Ranking since its inception in 1986. , In July 2011, Donald won his first tournament as the world number one at the Barclays Scottish Open , which was held the week before the 2011 Open Championship . He shot a bogey free −9 on Sunday to finish four strokes clear of Sweden's Fredrik Andersson Hed .  The tournament however, was badly affected by heavy rain in the Inverness area, with the course becoming flooded, washing out all of Saturday's play. A decision was taken to reduce the tournament to 54 holes. , Donald finished second at the 2011 WGC-Bridgestone Invitational , four shots behind winner Adam Scott . He won his fourth title of the year at the Children's Miracle Network Hospitals Classic in October 2011.  With the win, he secured the PGA Tour money list title , the Vardon Trophy , the Byron Nelson Award , and the PGA Player of the Year . He later was voted the PGA Tour Player of the Year . , In December, Donald finished third at the Dubai World Championship and therefore secured the European Tour Race to Dubai for 2011, becoming the first golfer to officially claim top rank on both PGA Tour and European Tour money lists in the same year (although if Tiger Woods had ever taken up official membership of the European Tour, he would have also achieved this accolade on a number of occasions). , At the first WGC event of the year, the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship , Donald in defence of his title he won in 2011, was eliminated in the opening round by South African Ernie Els who beat him 5&4. He was in danger of being knocked off the top of the world rankings as both Rory McIlroy and Lee Westwood progressed to the semi-finals, either would have taken over the top spot by winning the tournament. However, neither could win the title and Donald kept his number one status. However, he did lose his status the following week, after electing not to play at The Honda Classic . McIlroy won the tournament and took over as world number one. , Two weeks later, Donald won the Transitions Championship to reclaim the number one ranking from McIlroy. This was his fifth victory on the PGA Tour and came after a solid week's play culminating in a four-man playoff with Robert Garrigus , Bae Sang-moon and Jim Furyk . Donald had earlier shot a bogey-free round of 66, which included 5 birdies in his first 11 holes to make the playoff. After a loose tee shot found the rough, Donald hit a brilliant seven iron approach to within six feet on the 18th, the first extra hole. Garrigus also knocked his close, while Furyk and Bae left themselves lengthy birdie putts. There had only been 5 birdies all day in regulation play on the 18th and when Furyk, Bae and Garrigus all missed their putts, Donald brushed his in for the victory and the number one ranking.  , On 15 April 2012, Donald lost the number one ranking to McIlroy when he failed to finish inside the top 8 at the RBC Heritage . This cut short his second term as the world's number one player, ending after a four-week spell. Donald finished third at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans two weeks later to once again reclaim the number one ranking. He lost the number one spot the following week after McIlroy's runner-up finish at the Wells Fargo Championship . , On 23 May 2012, Donald was awarded honorary life membership of the European Tour in recognition of his achievements in the 2011 season.  In the same week, Donald retained his title at the BMW PGA Championship at Wentworth on 27 May 2012, with a four stroke victory over Justin Rose and Paul Lawrie . He shot all four rounds in the 60s, including a final round 68 with five birdies and only one bogey to claim victory. He became only the third player to successfully defend the European Tour's flagship event, alongside Nick Faldo and Colin Montgomerie . The victory was Donald's seventh title on the European Tour and resulted in a return to World Number One for the fourth time.  , Donald missed the cut at the 2012 U.S. Open , finishing +11 with rounds of 79 and 72. In his next major appearance, at the 2012 Open Championship , Donald equalled his best finish at the event of tied 5th. After rounds of 70-68-71, he produced a final round of 68 on a difficult day for scoring to advance up the leaderboard nine places to equal his best finish. On 12 August 2012, McIlroy won the 2012 PGA Championship . Donald finished in a tie for 32nd place at the tournament and again lost the world number one position to the Northern Irishman. In November, Donald won his third tournament of 2012, the Dunlop Phoenix tournament in Japan. In doing so he overtook Tiger Woods and returned to second place in the world rankings. , In March 2013, as defending champion at the Tampa Bay Championship , Donald finished in a tie for fourth. He missed his first-ever cut in a European Tour event at the Maybank Malaysian Open . It was his first missed cut in 119 career European Tour starts.  As the two-time defending champion, Donald then endured the disappointment of missing the halfway cut at the 2013 BMW PGA Championship at Wentworth after shooting rounds of 78 and 72, missing the cut by four strokes.  , At the 2013 U.S. Open held at Merion Golf Club , Donald was only two shots behind leader Phil Mickelson entering the final round after shooting rounds of 68, 72 and 71. Donald then shot a final round of 75 (+5) to finish in a tie for eighth, recording the first top 10-finish of his career in a U.S. Open tournament. Donald missed the halfway cut at both the 2013 Open Championship and 2013 PGA Championship , marking the first time in his career that he missed cuts at consecutive majors in a single year. In November 2013, Donald defended his title at the Dunlop Phoenix on the Japan Golf Tour , cruising to a six shot victory over the field. This was his first win of the 2013 season. , Late in 2013, Donald changed from long-time swing coach Pat Goss, to Chuck Cook, who coached Justin Rose to the U.S. Open title at Merion Golf Club . Donald started the season promisingly, with top-10s in the Honda Classic and the Valspar Championship before missing the cut by one shot at the Masters in April. Just prior to Augusta, Donald had lost a place in the world's top 30 for the first time since 2008. He returned at RBC Heritage , where he held a two-shot lead after 54 holes, only to be narrowly beaten by Matt Kuchar , but he finished 2nd and returned to the world's top 20. Several weeks later, and Donald finished in 38th at The Players Championship . He also tied for third at the BMW PGA Championship in May. He failed to make the European Ryder Cup team after losing out on a wild card pick from captain Paul McGinley . In November Donald announced that he had switched back to his old coach Pat Goss as he believed that he was not making any progress under Cook after facing the disappointment of missing the Ryder Cup. , In the first event of the 2015 European Tour season at the Nedbank Golf Challenge , Donald led the tournament after 36 holes after a 63, and again after 54 holes. He was unable to hold onto that lead after 72 holes and had to settle for third place behind Danny Willett and Ross Fisher . Donald had to face sectional qualifying for the U.S. Open for the first time in 11 years due to his fall to 66th in the world ranking. He managed to finish at the top of his qualifier at the Bears Club to seal a spot. , Luke Donald signed with sports management company IMG in 2003. He has a multi-year contract with Mizuno Corp. As part of this sponsorship Luke plays with Mizuno Fairway Woods, Irons and Wedges. Luke also carries a Mizuno Bag, Headcovers and Umbrella. Luke also wears his trademark Mizuno visor as part of his sponsorship. It has been reported that he receives $1 million just for wearing his Mizuno visor, and this could quadruple if he wins a major event such as the Masters.   Donald also has a sponsorship deal with Footjoy, who supply his personal shoes and tour sponsorships with Royal Bank of Canada as well as Zurich Insurance . , Polo Ralph Lauren announced, in February 2007, that Luke Donald has signed a new multi-year contract with the luxury apparel company. Luke will continue to serve as a brand ambassador for Polo Ralph Lauren worldwide for the RLX Golf range. With this exclusive sponsorship, Luke will continue to wear clothing from the RLX collection and will be featured in its advertising campaign. Polo Ralph Lauren has been the exclusive apparel sponsor of Donald since 2002. , In 2007, Luke Donald entered into a partnership with Terlato Wines to create a collection of bespoke wines.  The first wine released (in April 2008) was a Claret-style red wine blend and a Carneros Chardonnay was released in spring 2009. Since then, a Viognier (2010) was added to the Luke Donald Collection, produced in the Central Coast of California. The wines reflect Donald's personal interest in and passion for food and wine.  , Donald met his future wife, Chicago native Diane Antonopoulos, while attending Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois.  He proposed in June 2006, and the couple married on 24 June 2007 in Santorini , Greece.   They have three daughters. The couple own homes in Northfield, Illinois  and Palm Beach Gardens, Florida .  , Donald studied art theory and practice in college, and enjoys painting and drawing when not on tour. In 2002, one of his oil paintings was auctioned by the PGA Tour for charity.   Donald and his wife are also avid collectors of contemporary art.  , His brother Christian Donald caddied for him through to 2009. , Donald's father, Colin Donald, died on 8 November 2011,  just three days before the birth of his son's second daughter, Sophia Ann Grace, on 11 November 2011.  , Donald was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2012 Birthday Honours for services to golf.  , His third daughter, Georgina, was born on 23 May 2014, while Donald was in England playing the BMW PGA Championship . , this list may be incomplete , * Note: The 2002 Southern Farm Bureau Classic was reduced to 54 holes due to adverse weather conditions. , PGA Tour playoff record (1–2) , * Note: The 2011 Barclays Scottish Open was reduced to 54 holes due to flooding of the course. , European Tour playoff record (1–0) , Results not in chronological order prior to 2015. , Amateur , Professional , Player in bold denotes current number one  William Fred Mayfair (born August 6, 1966) is an American professional golfer who plays on the PGA Tour . , , , Mayfair was born in Phoenix, Arizona . Before his fifteenth birthday, he won numerous junior golf tournaments. In 1981 , he was on the cover of Boys' Life magazine as "golf's junior hotshot". He attended Arizona State University and was a member of the golf team.  He won the 1986 U.S. Amateur Public Links and the 1987 U.S. Amateur ,  defeating University of Tennessee graduate Eric Rebmann 4&3. He won the 1987 Haskins Award for the nation's top collegiate golfer.  , Mayfair turned professional in 1988  and has won five events on the PGA Tour , including the 1995 Tour Championship . He has featured in the top 50 of the Official World Golf Rankings , going as high as 26th in 1996. He holds the distinction of being the only player to ever beat Tiger Woods in a playoff on the PGA Tour (1998 Nissan Open ).  , Mayfair was the medalist at the 2010 PGA Tour's Qualifying School . He finished 142nd on the Tour money list that year, which granted him conditional status for 2011. He finished the 2011 season 109th on the money list and retained his tour card for 2012. In 2013 and 2014 Mayfair split his playing time between the PGA Tour and the Web.com Tour , playing mostly on the Web.com Tour in 2014. , Mayfair lives in Scottsdale, Arizona where he plays out of Estrella Mountain Ranch Golf Club. On July 31, 2006, he was diagnosed with testicular cancer . He had surgery on August 3 of that year and it has been reported that the cancer was contained.   , this list may be incomplete , PGA Tour playoff record (2–5) , Amateur  Carl Pettersson (born 29 August 1977) is a Swedish professional golfer who is a member of the PGA Tour . He has won five times on the PGA Tour , making him Sweden 's joint most successful player alongside Jesper Parnevik . Pettersson carries dual citizenship after having become an American citizen in January 2012.  , , , Pettersson was born in Gothenburg . His father was a Volvo executive who was transferred internationally, so Carl lived in England from ages 10 to 14 and spent his last two high school years at Grimsley High School in Greensboro, North Carolina , in the United States. He went on to attend North Carolina State University . After he won the European Amateur in 2000, Pettersson turned professional. , Pettersson won a European Tour card at Qualifying School in 2000 and played the European Tour in 2001 and 2002, winning the 2002 Algarve Open de Portugal . In late 2002, he won a place on the U.S.-based PGA Tour at Qualifying School and he has played mainly in America since then. His first PGA Tour title was the 2005 Chrysler Championship , where he became the third Swede to win on the PGA Tour after Jesper Parnevik and Gabriel Hjertstedt . , On 4 June 2006, Pettersson won his second PGA Tour title, the Memorial Tournament at Muirfield Village . He finished at 12-under-par, two strokes ahead of the field. , On 17 August 2008, Pettersson holed a closing 12 inch putt for a two stroke victory in his adopted hometown of Greensboro to win the Wyndham Championship . , After finding success on the PGA Tour, Pettersson experienced a lackluster year in 2009, where in one stretch out of 15 tournaments he had 10 missed cuts and two withdrawals. Pettersson cited his change in his lifestyle. His new lifestyle of working out and reducing his diet resulted in a loss of 30 pounds and a decline in his golf. He reverted to his original lifestyle later that year and regained success.  , On 25 July 2010, Pettersson won his fourth PGA Tour event at the RBC Canadian Open by one stroke over Dean Wilson . Pettersson made a 9 foot par putt on Friday to make the cut. He shot 60 on Saturday and a birdie putt for 59 lipped out on 18, which put him in the final pairing on Sunday. He shot 67 on Sunday to win by one stroke. , Pettersson won for the fifth time on the PGA Tour in April 2012 at the RBC Heritage at Harbour Town Golf Links . He entered the final round with a one stroke lead after rounds of 65 and 66 on days two and three and cruised to a five stroke victory, holding off Zach Johnson . The win tied Pettersson with Jesper Parnevik for most wins on the PGA Tour by a Swedish player. He re-entered the top 50 in the Official World Golf Ranking . , Pettersson opened up the 2012 PGA Championship with a bogey free round of 66 to lead after round one at six-under-par. On a much harder day for scoring with strong winds, Pettersson shot a two-over round of 74, which included three birdies and five bogeys. He held the lead at the midway stage with Tiger Woods and Vijay Singh at four-under-par. In the third round, he shot an even-par round of 72 to enter the final round in second place, three strokes behind Rory McIlroy . For the first time in his career he played in the final group of a major championship. He shot another even-par round, despite incurring a two stroke penalty for grounding his club in a hazard at the first hole and ended in a tie for third place, his best finish in a major. , Amateur , Professional  James William Walker (born January 16, 1979) is an American professional golfer who plays on the PGA Tour . After playing in 187 events without a win on the PGA Tour, Walker won three times in the first eight events of the 2014 PGA Tour season. , , , Walker was born in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma . After high school, he attended Baylor University in Waco, Texas , where he played on the varsity golf team, the Baylor Bears . Walker turned professional in 2001, at age 22. , Walker played on the Nationwide Tour full-time in 2003 and 2004. In 2004 he won the first two professional events of his career at the BellSouth Panama Championship and the Chitimacha Louisiana Open . Walker ended the 2004 season as the Nationwide Tour's leading money winner and won Player of the Year honors, while in the process earning his PGA Tour card for the first time. , Walker only played in nine PGA Tour events in 2005 due to injury, making only three cuts and a best finish of 17th at the MCI Heritage. He played his first full season on the PGA Tour in 2006, where he played in 21 events. He did not enjoy a very successful season, making nine cuts and recording only one top-25 finish. He ended the season 202nd on the money list, which was not enough to retain his playing rights. Walker went back to the Nationwide Tour in 2007, where he added a third title to his name at the National Mining Association Pete Dye Classic and finished in 25th place on the Nationwide Tour's money list, which qualified him for a PGA Tour card for the 2008 season. Again, Walker endured a difficult season, making 13 cuts in 24 events, but with only three top-25 finishes. He ended the year 192nd on the FedEx Cup Standings and entered the year end Q-school to try and regain his card. He finished in a tie for 11th, which was enough to regain his card for the 2009 PGA Tour season. , Walker fared better in 2009, where he recorded his first two top-10 finishes on the PGA Tour, including a T5 at the Turning Stone Resort Championship . Walker finished the 2009 PGA Tour season ranked 125th on the money list, securing the last available tour card for the 2010 season. In 2010, Walker made less than half of the cuts he played in, but had a T3 and T4 finish to boost his season's placing. He finished 2010 ranked 103rd on the money list. In 2011, Walker enjoyed his best PGA Tour season so far, helped by three 4th/T4 finishes throughout the season. He finished 68th in the FedEx Cup standings and qualified for the third FedEx Cup playoff event, the BMW Championship, for the first time. Walker followed up a solid 2011 season with another good year in 2012. He finished the year 43rd in the FedEx Cup standings, with six top-10 finishes. Walker started to develop a consistent game on the PGA Tour, evidenced when he made 25 consecutive cuts from the 2012 John Deere Classic to the 2013 Memorial Tournament . During this run, Walker had finishes of T2, T3 and T4 as he finished the 2013 season with over $2 million in prize money for the first time. , The 2014 PGA Tour season was the first time that the season began with six events in the fall of 2013. In the first of these, Walker won his maiden PGA Tour event at the 2013 Frys.com Open , after nine years and 188 PGA Tour starts. He won by two strokes over Vijay Singh after shooting 62-66 over the weekend. The win gave him an exemption into the Hyundai Tournament of Champions , and earned him his first trip to The Masters and a PGA Tour card until the end of 2016. Walker also entered the world's top 50 for the first time.  , Walker opened up 2014 finishing T21 at his first visit to the Hyundai Tournament of Champions . The following week in January 2014, he earned his second PGA Tour win at the Sony Open in Hawaii . He birdied four of the final six holes and shot a final round 63 to win by one stroke over Chris Kirk .  , Five weeks later, in early February 2014, Walker won the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am by one stroke over Dustin Johnson and Jim Renner . He had a six-stroke advantage going into the final round, but shot a two-over-par 74 on Sunday and needed to hole a five-foot par putt on the 18th for the victory.  This was his third victory of the 2014 season in just eight starts, after previously going 187 events without a victory. With his win, Walker became the leader on the 2014 money list, FedExCup standings, and Ryder Cup points standings. He also raised his Official World Golf Ranking to 24th.   A T8 finish at the 2014 Masters Tournament raised his ranking to 19th, and ensured him an invitation into the 2015 tournament. He went on to post top-ten finishes at two other majors, a T9 at the 2014 U.S. Open , and a T7 the 2014 PGA Championship .  His highly successful season earned him a spot on the 2014 Ryder Cup , another personal first.  Walker went as high as 17th in the OWGR during the 2014 season. , In January 2015, Walker lost in a sudden-death playoff at the Hyundai Tournament of Champions in Hawaii to Patrick Reed . After finishing at 21-under-par in regulation play, Walker was beaten by a Reed birdie on the first extra hole. The following week on tour, Walker defended his Sony Open in Hawaii title with a nine-stroke victory after a final round 63. It was Walker's fourth career PGA Tour victory and it moved him 13th in the OWGR. In March 2015, Walker earned his fifth PGA Tour win and second of the season at the Valero Texas Open with a four-stroke victory over Jordan Spieth . Residing in San Antonio, Texas , this meant Walker had claimed victory in his hometown event. The win moved Walker into the world's top 10 for the first time and took him to the top of the FedEx Cup standings. , Walker is married to the former Erin Stiegemeier, whom he met while she served as a volunteer at a 2004 Nationwide Tour event.  They have two sons. Walker is also an avid photographer, while his wife is a nationally ranked show jumper.  His home golf course is Cordillera Golf Club in Boerne, Texas . , PGA Tour playoff record (0–1) , Professional  Nicholas Alan Watney (born April 25, 1981) is an American professional golfer who plays on the PGA Tour . The highlight of Watney's career to date is his victory at the 2011 WGC-Cadillac Championship . In July 2011, Watney broke into the top ten of the Official World Golf Ranking for the first time in his career, after his victory at the AT&T National , placing him tenth in the world.  , , , Watney was born in Sacramento, California . He played his high school golf at Davis Senior High School in Davis, California . He played collegiate golf under his uncle Mike Watney at Fresno State University , where he was a three-time All-America golfer.  Mike did not offer his nephew a scholarship to Fresno State; Nick had to walk on to the team. He turned professional in 2003, following in the footsteps of his uncle, who played on the PGA Tour in the 1970s.  , In 2003, Watney's first professional victory came at the Lewis Chitengwa Memorial on the Canadian Tour . The next year he played on the Nationwide Tour , and after winning the season-ending Nationwide Tour Championship , Watney earned qualification for the PGA Tour. , In 2007, after two years of slow progress, Watney won his first PGA Tour title at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans . This victory took Watney into the top 100 of the Official World Golf Ranking for the first time. He got his second tour win at the 2009 Buick Invitational at Torrey Pines Golf Course in San Diego , with a one-stroke victory over John Rollins , taking him to his highest position yet in the World Golf Rankings, number 76. , In the 2010 PGA Championship at Whistling Straits , Watney had a three-shot lead going into the final round. However, he shot a final round of 81, which dropped him back to a tie for 18th place.  , Watney won the biggest tournament of his career to date and his first World Golf Championship at the WGC-Cadillac Championship at Doral Golf Resort & Spa in March 2011. He entered the final round trailing by two strokes, but shot a final round 67, including a run of four birdies in five holes in the middle of the round, and finished with a birdie at the notoriously difficult 18th, to record a two-stroke victory over compatriot Dustin Johnson .  Watney admitted in an interview afterwards that he had dwelt on finishing 2nd at Doral, in the same tournament two years before, when his putt on the 18th finished a couple of inches short of the hole.  After the victory, Watney moved up to number 15 in the World Golf Rankings.  , In July, Watney won for the second time in 2011 at the AT&T National by beating K. J. Choi by two strokes. The victory owed much to his third-round score when he set a course record 62 around Aronimink Golf Club , beating the previous record set coincidentally on the same day, which Chris Kirk and Steve Marino held briefly with joint 63s. Watney shot a 27 on the back nine, which tied the second lowest nine-hole score ever recorded on the PGA Tour . The record is held by Corey Pavin who shot 26 at the U.S. Bank Championship in Milwaukee in 2006. During the final round Watney did not record a single bogey, making a number of crucial par saving putts to hold off the challenge of Choi and capture his fourth PGA Tour title.  This win took Watney to the top of the FedEx Cup standings, ahead of Choi, and into the top ten of the Official World Golf Ranking for the first time in his career. He finished the 2011 season ranked third on the PGA Tour money list. , During the 2011 President's Cup, he defeated K. J. Choi on the final day to give the United States team a distinct advantage over the International Team coached by Greg Norman . The four-day match play tournament was played in Melbourne, Australia. , During the first round of the 2012 U.S. Open at the Olympic Club , Watney made a double eagle on the par-five 17th hole to become only the third man to record a double eagle in U.S. Open history. The others being T.C. Chen in 1985 at Oakland Hills and Shaun Micheel in 2010 at Pebble Beach.  , In August 2012, Watney won the first of the four FedEx Cup playoff events, The Barclays , at Bethpage Black in New York. He came from two behind in the final round to win by three strokes over Brandt Snedeker to take the outright lead in the FedEx Cup standings. This was the first playoff event victory of his career. After Rory McIlroy won the second playoff event, Watney dropped to second in the standings. , Watney's cousin is journalist Heidi Watney . , 1 Co-sanctioned with the PGA Tour , but unofficial money event. , WD = withdrew , Amateur , Professional  Mark Joseph Wilson (born October 31, 1974) is an American professional golfer who plays on the PGA Tour . , , , Wilson turned professional in 1997 and played on the NGA Hooters Tour for the early part of his career, where he won three times between 1998-2001.  He then won his PGA Tour card for the 2003 season after finishing T17 at the Q School in 2002. In his first full season on tour, Wilson narrowly missed out on retaining his card when he finished 128th on the money list. He held conditional status for the 2004 PGA Tour season and alternated between the PGA Tour and Nationwide Tour for the season. He then regained his tour card for 2005 season at Q School and finished the year with three top-10 finishes including a T3 at the Valero Texas Open , which at the time was his best finish on the PGA Tour. He continued with conditional status in 2006 after finishing 133rd on the money list in 2005, then again regained full status at the 2006 Q School for the 2007 season. , Wilson won for the first time on the PGA Tour at the Honda Classic in March 2007, where he triumphed in a four-way playoff. He won the tournament on the third extra hole after being tied with José Cóceres , Camilo Villegas and Boo Weekley at 5-under-par.  This victory lifted Wilson into the top 100 of the Official World Golf Ranking for the first time in his career.  , Wilson has since won the 2009 Mayakoba Golf Classic at Riviera Maya-Cancun , the 2011 Sony Open in Hawaii  and the 2011 Waste Management Phoenix Open where he triumphed in a playoff against Jason Dufner .  The Sony Open victory earned Wilson his first trip to the Masters . Wilson earned his fifth PGA Tour victory at the 2012 Humana Challenge , holding off the challenge of Robert Garrigus , Johnson Wagner and John Mallinger by two strokes. He finished at 24-under-par, helped by a second round 62 which included eight birdies and an eagle.  With the win, he moved to a career high of 40th in the Official World Golf Ranking . The following month, Wilson enjoyed a good run at the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship where he made it all the way to the semi-finals before losing to eventual champion Hunter Mahan , 2&1. He did however win the consolation match to finish third, defeating world number three Lee Westwood , 1 up. In his run for the semi-finals, Wilson beat Bo Van Pelt (3&2), Robert Rock (3&2), Dustin Johnson (4&3) and Peter Hanson (4&3). This was Wilson' best showing at a WGC event and he moved to a career high 24th in the world ranking. , Wilson was born in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin and currently resides in Elmhurst, Illinois . , Along with his wife, Amy, he is heavily involved in the Blessings in a Backpack charitable organization, with a mission of sending needy school children home every weekend with nonperishable food they can eat on Saturday and Sunday. , PGA Tour playoff record (2–0) 